===== PAGE 1 =====
Neural Brushstroke Engine:
Learning a Latent Style Space of Interactive Drawing Tools
MARIA SHUGRINA, NVIDIA, Canada
CHIN-YING LI∗, Asana, Canada
SANJA FIDLER, NVIDIA, Canada, University of Toronto, Canada, and Vector Institute, Canada
latent space
of brushes
natural language brush discovery
1
2
3
4
5
“blades of grass”
interactive drawing
in any style
“lady bug”
“sidewalk chalk”
“cracked walnuts”
“gothic lace”
“candy cane”
“Andy Warhol paint”
GAN
Fig. 1. Latent space of brushes learned by Neural Brushstroke Engine allows interactive drawing in a wide array of styles and exploration of the brush latent
space, for example through natural language search (see bottom right). All drawings ©Maria Shugrina.
We propose Neural Brushstroke Engine, the first method to apply deep
generative models to learn a distribution of interactive drawing tools. Our
conditional GAN model learns the latent space of drawing styles from a
small set (about 200) of unlabeled images in different media. Once trained,
a single model can texturize stroke patches drawn by the artist, emulating
a diverse collection of brush styles in the latent space. In order to enable
interactive painting on a canvas of arbitrary size, we design a painting engine
able to support real-time seamless patch-based generation, while allowing
artists direct control of stroke shape, color and thickness. We show that
the latent space learned by our model generalizes to unseen drawing and
more experimental styles (e.g. beads) by embedding real styles into the latent
space. We explore other applications of the continuous latent space, such as
optimizing brushes to enable painting in the style of an existing artwork,
automatic line drawing stylization, brush interpolation, and even natural
language search over a continuous space of drawing tools. Our prototype
received positive feedback from a small group of digital artists.
CCS Concepts: • Computing methodologies →Graphics systems and
interfaces; Neural networks; Image manipulation.
∗Work done during internship at NVIDIA.
Authors’ addresses: Maria Shugrina, NVIDIA, Toronto, Canada, shumash@gmail.com;
Chin-Ying Li, Asana, Vancouver, Canada, chinyingli.alice@gmail.com; Sanja Fidler,
NVIDIA, Toronto, Canada , University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada , Vector Institute,
Toronto, Canada, fidler@cs.toronto.edu.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
© 2022 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
0730-0301/2022/12-ART269 $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3550454.3555472
Additional Key Words and Phrases: GANs, example-based media, digital
brushes
ACM Reference Format:
Maria Shugrina, Chin-Ying Li, and Sanja Fidler. 2022. Neural Brushstroke
Engine: Learning a Latent Style Space of Interactive Drawing Tools . ACM
Trans. Graph. 41, 6, Article 269 (December 2022), 19 pages. https://doi.org/
10.1145/3550454.3555472
1
INTRODUCTION
Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) [Goodfellow et al. 2014]
have shown a remarkable range of applications by approximating a
continuous distribution of natural images from unlabeled data. We
follow the same methodology and instead apply deep convolutional
GANs to model a distribution of interactive drawing tools, showing
a range of novel and expressive applications in control and discovery
of digital brushes. Where a latent code 𝑧sampled from a continuous
distribution corresponds to a full image in a classic GAN, in our
work 𝑧becomes the identity of the brush that can be used for free-
form drawing, extending the benefits of continuous latent spaces to
interactive drawing tools for the first time.
As the first application of deep generative networks to approxi-
mate a range of diverse digital brushes, our method does not aim
to outperform time-honed techniques for emulating any specific
medium. Modern methods for synthesis of interactive brush strokes
achieve impressive quality and speed, and are widely available in
applications such as Corel Painter, Procreate and Adobe Fresco.
However, simulation of any one realistic medium (e.g. oil paint)
requires a heavy engineering effort, making diverse high quality
brushes unattainable in most drawing applications. The other brush
types, typically based on cloning or stamping, have a flat appearance
and struggle to support effects such as volumetric paint. Further,
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 2 =====
269:2
•
Shugrina et al.
it is not possible to optimize or interpolate within such discrete
curated collection of brushes to achieve certain effects. By encod-
ing many diverse media within a single trained model, our method
shows a promising approach to deliver a wide range of realistic
styles within a single algorithmically lightweight toolbox, while
allowing additional applications.
The two main contributions of Neural Brushstroke Engine are a
controllable patch-based GAN generator 𝐺and a painting engine
that allows this generator to be used for interactive drawing. In-
spired by recent approaches, we train our convolutional model to
stylize patches of user-drawn strokes to look like realistic brush-
strokes by training from two unlabeled and unpaired image domains:
synthetic plain strokes and a relatively small set of sample strokes
in different media (our largest train set is 241 images). We modified
existing design of StyleGAN2 [Karras et al. 2019] to control image
output using an external plain user stroke. Once trained, 𝐺can
stylize any plain stroke in a wide variety of styles that we show
to generalize beyond the training set. Beyond multi-modal image-
to-image translation, we parameterize the output of 𝐺following
[Shugrina et al. 2020] to support compositing of clear brush strokes
and user control of color. To allow interactive painting and seam-
less patch-based generation on arbitrary canvas sizes, we design a
painting engine with 𝐺as its backbone. To show practical viability,
we implement a drawing interface powered by Neural Brushstroke
Engine and test it with a small group of professional digital artists.
Beyond interactive drawing in many styles, Neural Brushstroke
Engine invites other applications. For example, our paint engine
can also automatically stylize entire input line drawings and text.
Continuous latent space supports brush interpolation, for example
between such stylized line drawings. In addition, we show that
despite being trained in a low-data regime, our model generalizes
to out-of-distribution drawing styles. This enables exploration and
discovery of brushes beyond the training set. For example, we show
that it is possible to optimize brushes to allow interactively drawing
in the textural style of a target artwork. We also demonstrate the first
method to find unseen brushes based on a natural language query
by leveraging CLIP [Radford et al. 2021]. Finally, Neural Brushstroke
Engine is a differentiable style-based stroke renderer that can find
many uses in deep learning for artistic applications.
In summary, the contributions of our work are as follows:
(1) the first method to approximate a continuous distribution of
diverse drawing media by learning from unlabeled images
(2) a novel parametrization of the GAN output in terms of colors
and alpha maps, allowing recoloring and compositing
(3) a patch-based painting engine that avoids stitching artifacts and
supports interactive drawing and offline stylization
(4) the first technique to support brush style interpolation
(5) excellent results of embedding real styles into the latent space,
allowing drawing with the optimized brushes
(6) the first natural language search over a continuous space of
interactive drawing tools
Following related work (§2), we describe our generative model ar-
chitecture and training (§3). We then design the painting engine
powered by this patch-based generator to support interactive draw-
ing (§4), and dive into applications of the latent brush space for brush
discovery in §5. We conclude with qualitative results, applications
and experiments (§6) and a user study (§7).
2
RELATED WORK
Remarkable progress in interactive drawing tools has been made
(§2.1). In contrast to prior work, our method is the first to approx-
imate a distribution of interactive artistic tools by learning from
data, borrowing from recent generative techniques (§2.2).
2.1
Digital Artistic Media
Methods for simulating physical artistic tools have a long his-
tory, including progressively more accurate simulation of physical
paints and other media [Baxter and Govindaraju 2010; Baxter et al.
2004b; Chen et al. 2015; Chu et al. 2010; Chu and Tai 2005; Curtis
et al. 1997; Hertzmann 1998], as well as methods that improve the
efficiency of such simulations [Baxter et al. 2004a; DiVerdi et al.
2010; Hertzmann 2002; Stuyck et al. 2017; Wu et al. 2018]. Several
methods model a whole class of simulated brushes for driving digital
media [Baxter and Govindaraju 2010; Baxter and Lin 2004; DiVerdi
2013; DiVerdi et al. 2010]. Rather than emulating a specific medium
(e.g. watercolor) or instrument (e.g. bristle brush) as precisely and
efficiently as possible, our method learns a whole style space of
interactive digital tools. Production constraints can pose a barrier
to implementing additional media within commercial applications
[DiVerdi et al. 2010], and our approach enables an algorithmically
lightweight toolbox for a wide range of tools. As a first method to
take this direction, we focus on stroke appearance and ignore fine
aspects of dynamic behavior, which many prior works consider.
Example-based methods emulate interactive media using patch-
based synthesis, i.e. by borrowing pixels from an exemplar using
intelligent search and stitching. Some methods allow painting with
a single texture image [Lukáč et al. 2015, 2013; Ritter et al. 2006]
by relying on exemplar annotations such as edges. These methods
can yield stunning results, but often require run-time input beyond
the drawn stroke [Lukáč et al. 2015, 2013] and can introduce errors
if annotations are incorrect. Other techniques focus on emulating
drawing media [Ando and Tsuruno 2010; Kim and Shin 2010; Lu
et al. 2013], and in all cases require detailed pre-processing of input
exemplars into a lookup-ready stroke library. Unlike ours, none of
the example-based approaches learn to extrapolate new styles or
work with unlabeled images. Recently, deep learning has been used
to synthesize strokes in a particular medium using labeled data, for
example to speed up oil paint simulation [Wu et al. 2018], render
3D models in a specific hand-drawn style [Liu et al. 2021a], or ap-
proximate simple stroke rendering differentiably [Huang et al. 2019;
Nakano 2019; Zheng et al. 2018]. In contrast, our model learns many
different styles within the same model from unlabeled examples.
By construction, methods tailored for interactive drawing typi-
cally support basic requirements of a drawing tool, namely:
R1 Local control over stroke geometry
R2 Background separation and ability to composite strokes
R3 Ability to change color
R4 Generation on any canvas size
R5 Interactive drawing
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 3 =====
Neural Brushstroke Engine:
Learning a Latent Style Space of Interactive Drawing Tools
•
269:3
Table 1. State-of-the art in digital media and most relevant conditional generative models or image-to-image translation models that could be employed for
brushstroke stylization.
Properties
Basic Drawing Support
Styles
No
labels
Local
control
Backgr.
separation
Color
control
Arbitrary
canvas
Interactive
drawing
Multiple
styles/model
Style
interpolation
Style
retrieval
Novel
styles
Example-based Digital Media
[Ritter et al. 2006]
×
×
×
×
×
×
[Lukáč et al. 2015]
×
×
×
×
×
×
[Lukáč et al. 2013]
×
×
×
×
×
×
×
[Kim and Shin 2010]
×
×
×
×
×
[Ando and Tsuruno 2010]
×
×
×
×
×
[Lu et al. 2013]
×
×
×
×
×
×
[Wu et al. 2018]
×
×
×
×
×
×
[Liu et al. 2021a]
×
×
×
×
×
×
×
×
[Zheng et al. 2018]
×
×
×
×
×
[Huang et al. 2019]
×
×
×
×
×
Generative Models & Style Transfer
[Park et al. 2019]
×
×
×
×
×
[Park et al. 2020]
×
×
×
×
×
×
×
×
[Fish et al. 2020]
×
×
×
×
×
×
×
×
[Li et al. 2019]
×
×
×
×
×
[Almahairi et al. 2018]
×
×
×
×
[Ma et al. 2018]
×
×
×
×
×
[Huang et al. 2018]
×
×
×
×
[Lee et al. 2020]
×
×
×
×
Neural Brushstroke Engine (Ours)
In the case of other image generation methods, described next,
many of these requirements are difficult to meet. We, therefore,
break down most relevant methods by their support of R1-R5 and
also by their handling of style in Tb.1.
2.2
Image Generation Techniques
Our approach is related to neural texture synthesis [Alanov et al.
2019; Bergmann et al. 2017; Gatys et al. 2015; Liu et al. 2020; Mardani
et al. 2020], but these methods do not support interactive generation
or stroke-based texturing. Similarly to our approach, Henzler et al.
[2020] learn a latent space of textures, but their method is geared
toward 3D objects and cannot render interactive strokes. While
some approaches can blend between user-specified texture regions
[Li et al. 2017; Yu et al. 2019a], these methods cannot be trained on
heterogeneous texture samples (i.e. containing "stroke" and "paper")
like ours, and do not consider a critical aspect of stroke style – its
edge [Ritter et al. 2006]. Therefore, it would be difficult to directly
apply texture synthesis methods to interactive drawing.
Broadly, our method can be classified as image-to-image transla-
tion, where image in the domain A is the plain interactive stroke
that has to be translated to domain B, which contains diverse draw-
ing media. Style transfer is a special case of this problem that aims
to regenerate input image in the textural style of the target example
[Gatys et al. 2016; Hertzmann et al. 2001; Huang and Belongie 2017;
Li et al. 2019], but approaches of this class are not designed to work
interactively or to simulate individual brush strokes. To test this
limitation, we compare our generator to the model of [Li et al. 2019],
when trained to stylize the appearance of individual brushstrokes.
On the other hand, recent stroke-based stylization methods [Huang
et al. 2019; Liu et al. 2021b; Singh and Zheng 2021; Zou et al. 2021]
rely on simple brush models of a fixed style and could integrate our
differentiable Neural Brushstroke Engine instead.
Other modern approaches to general image-to-image transla-
tion include methods relying on paired training data (e.g. sketch
and photo) [Isola et al. 2017; Sangkloy et al. 2017; Wang et al. 2018].
While some of these allow expressive user input and diverse re-
sults [Ghosh et al. 2019; Park et al. 2019; Xian et al. 2018; Xiao et al.
2021], none support generating individual brushstrokes and most
rely on paired training data. Because paired data for our task is not
readily available, we formulate our training in an unpaired setting.
First unpaired methods used cycle consistency [Zhu et al. 2017],
and more recently improved techniques have been proposed for
unpaired training [Park et al. 2020]. Relevant to this line of research
and patch-based generation, [Fish et al. 2020] use paired image-to-
image translation methods and ideas from [Zhu et al. 2017] to train
single-style translation models for seamless sketch stylization. How-
ever, most unpaired methods, such as those above, only generate
one output for a given input and cannot simulate multiple styles, our
goal. Multi-modal unpaired image-to-image translation techniques
are most relevant to our method and typically rely on learning a
disentangled representation of content and style [Almahairi et al.
2018; Huang et al. 2018; Lee et al. 2018, 2020; Ma et al. 2018; Yu et al.
2019b]. These and other image-to-image translation methods are
not designed for interactive generation and fulfill only requirement
R1 (above). We test the generators of [Huang et al. 2018] and [Lee
et al. 2020] on our problem domain. Refer to Tb.1 for summary.
Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) [Goodfellow et al.
2014] continue to show impressive results in image generation
[Brock et al. 2018; Karras et al. 2021, 2019, 2020b], including sce-
narios with limited data [Karras et al. 2020a]. These techniques
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 4 =====
269:4
•
Shugrina et al.
are closely tied to many image-to-image translation methods, and
have also inspired hundreds of publications on semantic control,
disentanglement and manipulation of the GAN latent space. To our
knowledge none of the prior works leverage generative image tech-
niques for interactive painting supporting requirements R1-R5 and
a continuous space of brushes. We briefly survey methods relevant
to some of the above requirements, but a comprehensive survey is
beyond the scope of this paper. A wide range of approaches for ma-
nipulating images using GANs have been developed. For example,
many methods allow control and exploration of high-level attributes
by leveraging the latent space [Abdal et al. 2020, 2021a,c; Alaluf et al.
2021; Härkönen et al. 2020; Kim et al. 2021; Richardson et al. 2021;
Tov et al. 2021], or by modifying GAN architectures with built-in
control using available labels [Choi et al. 2018; Shoshan et al. 2021]
or in an unsupervised way [Afifi et al. 2021]. Other methods develop
more fine-grained control [Bau et al. 2019; Ling et al. 2021; Zhu et al.
2021], but are not well-suited for interactive patch-based generation,
as they rely on high-level semantic understanding of the image or
follow domain-specific pipelines. For example, [Jang et al. 2021]
adjust coarse and fine layers of StyleGAN for caricature genera-
tion from photo and [Zhu et al. 2021] allow editing of hairstyles
using target images by developing a novel embedding space and
designing a complex pipeline of segmentation mask alignment to
support training. Many other techniques are developed for face and
body generation and manipulation [Chen et al. 2021; Liu et al. 2022;
Wu et al. 2022], including using sketches. We build on StyleGAN2
generator [Karras et al. 2020a, 2019, 2020b], and take inspiration
from these techniques to modify its architecture for direct control
of stroke geometry and color. Like many before us, we leverage
the power of StyleGAN embedding space, including the W+ space
[Abdal et al. 2019] and noise inputs [Karras et al. 2020b], but in our
case the latent code corresponds to the interactive tool, not the final
image, calling for a different set of considerations.
Relevant to R2, some methods leverage GAN features for segmen-
tation and other labeling [Zhang et al. 2021]. We choose not to rely
on such downstream segmentation to enable compositing (R2), but
instead design a generator that natively outputs soft alpha maps.
Several related methods use alpha compositing, like our technique,
to generate final results [Abdal et al. 2021b; Kwak and Zhang 2016;
Yang et al. 2017], but do not leverage this for interactive control.
Further, while many methods have been developed for interactive
recoloring (R3) [Du et al. 2021; Shugrina et al. 2020; Zhao et al. 2021],
adding recoloring during post-processing would not allow setting
the color of the brush during drawing, which is a basic requirement.
We parameterize our generator to allow direct control of color.
Also relevant to our work is text-driven manipulation of images,
including using CLIP [Radford et al. 2021]. In contrast to [Abdal et al.
2021a], who use CLIP to find edit directions for StyleGAN, and [Gal
et al. 2021b] who finetune a trained GAN to achieve one text-guided
style, we use CLIP embeddings to discover new interactive tools
within our model’s latent space. We also recognize that future work
can leverage new generators, such as diffusion models [Saharia et al.
2021] and frequency-based image representations [Gal et al. 2021a].
3
PATCH-BASED GENERATOR
As any GAN, the generator 𝐺of Neural Brushstroke Engine learns
to generate diverse "fake" image patches when trained on unlabeled
"real" patches by relying on a concurrently trained discriminator.
Unlike a traditional GAN, our model must also follow user guidance
for stroke geometry and color. During training we rely on two
unpaired and unlabeled datasets of patches: dataset X of strokes in
various media, and dataset G of plain black-on-white strokes.
3.1
Formulation and Background
Given user stroke (or "geometry") g, colors c, and medium 𝑚(e.g.
impasto oil paint), the painted stroke x is drawn from the probability
distribution 𝑝(x|𝑚, c, g). Here we make a simplifying assumption
that color variations due to lighting and camera can be encoded in
c or 𝑚, and that g is relative to the image plane. Our training data
is a collection of image patches X = {x𝑖} in various media, drawn
from the joint distribution 𝑝(x,𝑚, c, g), where each patch contains
a stroke in only one medium and color (Fig.9a). If we assume that
medium 𝑚, color c and stroke geometry g are independent, as any
set of colors and user strokes can be expected for any input medium,
then our sampled distribution factorizes to be:
𝑝(x,𝑚, c, g) = 𝑝(x|𝑚, c, g)𝑝(𝑚)𝑝(c)𝑝(g).
(1)
Using this data, we aim to model both the marginal distribution
over different media 𝑝(𝑚), and the conditional distribution over
strokes drawn in that medium 𝑝(x|𝑚, c, g). Specifically, we want to
sample unlimited media ˆ𝑚∼ˆ𝑝(𝑚), and images drawn in each of
these media ˆx ∼ˆ𝑝(x| ˆ𝑚,𝑐,𝑢) given any user stroke g and color c,
where ˆ𝑝denotes the approximated distribution.
In a traditional GAN formulation, a model trained on images X
approximates the true image distribution 𝑝(x) with 𝑝𝐺(x). Typically,
the generator 𝐺produces a random image deterministically, given
a random vector z drawn from a simple distribution. StyleGAN
[Karras et al. 2019] proposed first mapping this random z to another
space of "style" latent vectors using a learned Mapping Network.
This allows learning to reshape the simple distribution over z into
a distribution 𝑝𝐺(𝑤) that is more meaningful for conditioning a
convolutional neural network with adaptive layers.
We adapt StyleGAN training for our problem. In our formulation,
𝑝𝐺(𝑤) approximates the joint distribution over media and colors
𝑝(𝑚, c), which, given the independence assumption, is the same
as 𝑝(𝑚)𝑝(c) in Eq.1. Thus the style vector w represents both color
and medium, where the color output by the generator is modeled
explicitly and can be directly swapped by a user-provided value
(See §3.2). The convolutional generator itself directly models our
distribution of interest 𝑝(x|𝑚, c, g), i.e. how to render strokes in a
given medium, color and following user stroke g. Our generator
does not model 𝑝(g), and g is injected into the network externally
from an unpaired, synthetic dataset of untextured strokes G. We,
therefore, implicitly assume that the geometry distribution 𝑝(g)
imposed by G is similar to the unknown geometry distribution in
the style dataset X.
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 5 =====
Neural Brushstroke Engine:
Learning a Latent Style Space of Interactive Drawing Tools
•
269:5
Fig. 2. Architecture and Training: Neural Brushstroke Engine extends StyleGAN2 architecture (striped yellow blocks) to condition image generation on
stroke geometry g. Represented as a binary image, g is passed through a pre-trained Geometry Encoder to produce spatial features that are concatenated with
the StyleGAN features . Instead of outputting RGB, the final ToTriad layer (§3.2) of our generator produces a decomposed image representation that allows
recoloring, compositing and formulating a geometric loss L𝑔𝑒𝑜(§3.4). See §3.3 for architecture details and §3.5 for training.
3.2
Modeling Color and Background
Ability to control stroke color is essential for any digital brush. On
the other hand, typical GAN architectures output RGB values di-
rectly. Rather than devising control mechanisms to steer the learned
generative process toward desired color choices, we re-formulate
𝐺to output a parametrization of the image where color is directly
controllable. Conveniently, this intermediate output also allows
formulating a loss for respecting stroke guidance g.
Our formulation is based on color triads [Shugrina et al. 2020] and
the observation that many images are well-modeled by a mix of only
3 colors. This is especially true of simple brushstrokes in a single
medium, and we thus forgo the non-linearity in color triads and
simply model each output patch as a linear mix of 3 colors (see SM,
C2). We will refer to this as the Alpha-color (AC) parametrization.
Formally, the final layer of the generator𝐺outputs a 3-channel alpha
image 𝐴= (𝛼0, 𝛼1, 𝛼2) at the target resolution 𝐻x𝐻, as well as 3
RGB colors c = (𝑐0,𝑐1,𝑐2) (Fig.3a). The final "fake" output image is
obtained through simple alpha compositing:
x = Σ𝑖𝛼𝑖· 𝑐𝑖.
(2)
Note that the three alphas are guaranteed to sum up to 1 for ev-
ery pixel due to a channel-wise softmax operator. We leverage AC
parametrization to define 𝛼2 as the background and 𝛼0 + 𝛼1 as the
foreground, and use these conventions to formulate a training loss
(§3.4) encouraging the generator to respect the input stroke (Fig.3a).
Once the generator is trained, treating (1 −𝛼2) as transparency
allows compositing strokes over a clear background (Fig.3a, bottom).
Replacing default 𝑐0 and 𝑐1 with custom colors enables versatile two-
color control of the output stroke (Fig.3b), inspired by multi-color
recoloring of [Shugrina et al. 2020; Tan et al. 2018]. No additional
post-processing or segmentation networks are needed, and the re-
coloring result is consistent across all generated patches for a given
brush style. We next explain how to make this work in practice.
3.3
Network Architecture
We choose to explore StyleGAN2 [Karras et al. 2019] architecture due
to the powerful properties of its latent space and its demonstrated
ability to learn in low-data regime [Karras et al. 2020a]. We modify
(a) Geometric Control: generator output for varying inputs g
(b) Color Control: effect of setting custom colors for a fixed z
Fig. 3. Alpha-color (AC) parametrization: our generator outputs colors
and alpha maps (§3.2), allowing color(b) and geometric control and com-
positing(a).
StyleGAN2 to allow conditioning on plain input patch g and add AC
parametrization. See Fig.2, with novel components shown in green.
To condition the generator on stroke geometry g, we forego
analytic definitions such as splines, which impose unnecessary con-
straints on the input format and make thickness difficult to model.
Instead, we leverage the powerful image processing properties of
neural networks and process raw 𝐻×𝐻binary input image g of the
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 6 =====
269:6
•
Shugrina et al.
user stroke with a simple pre-trained autoencoder 𝐸𝑔𝑒𝑜. This net-
work is composed of an 𝑛-layer convolutional encoder, outputting
a 𝑘0-channel feature map 𝑓0 of size 𝐻/2𝑛× 𝐻/2𝑛at the bottleneck
layer. The following upsampling layers of the decoder output pro-
gressively larger feature maps 𝑓1, 𝑓2, ... of dimensions 𝐻/2𝑛−1, ....
These feature maps are guaranteed to contain a summary of g, suffi-
cient to reconstruct it. In order to inject this geometric information
into StyleGAN, we concatenate one or more 𝑓𝑖with the StyleGAN
features at the appropriate resolution. We use resolution 𝐻= 128
for both g and generator output, which we deem appropriate for
modeling brushes on a patch level.
Second, we replace the last layer of StyleGAN which produces
RGB color values with a ToTriad layer followed by deterministic
alpha compositing (Eq.2). ToTriad implements the AC parametriza-
tion (§3.2) through an affine transformation that maps w not only to
the layer-specific style (as in [Karras et al. 2019], where it is referred
to as "𝐴", not to be confused with alpha layers 𝐴), but also to 9
additional values per each generated image in the batch. These 9
values are combined with an additional learned bias and a tanh acti-
vation to produce colors c. The other channels of the layer-specific
style are used as usual in the final synthesis layer, resulting in a
3-channel image, which is passed through a softmax operation for
each pixel to produce 3 alpha masks 𝐴with values at every pixel
summing to 1. Note that we do not use the residual version of Style-
GAN, where RGB values summed across resolutions. Early trials of
training vanilla StyleGAN on our unstructured scribbles revealed
that the residual layers contribute little to the final result, which is
not surprising, given lack of any global composition that could be
affected by 𝑤. See Suppl. Material (SM) for other network details.
3.4
Additional Losses
We use the alpha output 𝐴= (𝛼0, 𝛼1, 𝛼2) to define a loss quantifying
how well the generator respects input guidance image g. We define
𝛼2 to be the background, and use g as the ground truth target during
training. Any segmentation loss could be used, but we found the
continuous version of intersection-over-union (IoU) [Rahman and
Wang 2016] to perform most consistently. It is defined as:
𝐼𝑜𝑈(𝐼0, 𝐼1) =
|𝐼0 · 𝐼1|𝑠
(|𝐼0 + 𝐼1|𝑠−|𝐼0 · 𝐼1|𝑠)
(3)
for grayscale images 𝐼0, 𝐼1 ranging from 0 to 1, where · and + are
pixel-wise multiplication and addition, and |.|𝑠is the sum across all
spatial dimensions. Thus, we define our geometric loss to be:
L𝑃
𝑔𝑒𝑜(g,𝐴) = 𝐼𝑜𝑈(𝑃(g), 𝛼2),
(4)
where 𝑃is an optional pre-processing operator. Note that we apply
the loss only to the last alpha map 𝛼2 of 𝐴. The standard losses
L𝐺for training the generator and L𝐷for discriminator remain
unchanged from standard GAN training.
3.5
Training
We first pre-train the geometry encoder 𝐸𝑔𝑒𝑜on plain strokes G, and
fix its weights to ensure that stroke information is always correct
and to prevent the generator from "cheating". See SM for details
on network structure and training of this standard building block.
Following this, our generator 𝐺is trained similarly to a traditional
StyleGAN, with modifications summarized in Alg.1. For each itera-
tion we sample both the input geometry g (L7) and the target images
x and obtain feature maps from 𝐸𝑔𝑒𝑜. The augmented generator 𝐺
then produces alphas 𝐴used to compute the geometric loss (Eq.4).
We additionally found it helpful to warmstart training by first up-
dating only some geo_layers of 𝐺based on geometric loss (L13-14)
to pre-condition the generator to use 𝛼2 for the background.
Algorithm 1 Training Neural Brushstroke Engine generator 𝐺
1: G ←stroke geometry dataset
2: X ←style dataset
3: 𝐸𝑔𝑒𝑜←pre-trained encoder
4: 𝐺, 𝐷←initialize generator, discriminator
5: 𝐾, 𝐵←0, 0 (total images, total batches)
6: while 𝐾< 𝑘𝑖𝑚𝑔+ 𝑘𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑒do
7:
g ←sample batch_size from G
8:
x ←sample batch_size from X
9:
z ←random vector
10:
{𝑓𝑖} ←𝐸𝑔𝑒𝑜(g;𝑖=feature maps)
11:
𝐴, c ←𝐺({𝑓𝑖}, z)
12:
x′ ←composite(𝐴, c)
13:
if 𝐾< 𝑘𝑤𝑎𝑟𝑚then
⊲geo warmstart
14:
geo_layers(𝐺) ←backprop L𝑤𝑎𝑟𝑚(g,𝐴)
15:
else if 𝐾> 𝑘𝑖𝑚𝑔then
⊲geo finetune
16:
x′∗←composite(𝐺∗({𝑓𝑖}, z))
17:
geo_layers(𝐺) ←backprop L𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑒(g,𝐴, x′, x′∗)
18:
else
⊲standard GAN update
19:
𝐺←backprop L𝐺+ 𝛾L𝑔𝑒𝑜(g,𝐴)
20:
𝐷←backprop L𝐷
21:
if 𝐵mod 𝑇𝑔𝑒𝑜≡0 then
⊲geo phase (optional)
22:
geo_layers(𝐺) ←backprop L𝑔𝑒𝑜(g,𝐴)
23:
𝐺∗←𝐺
24:
𝐵, 𝐾←𝐵+ 1, 𝐾+ batch_size
Balancing geometric loss with standard GAN loss is important,
because weighing L𝑔𝑒𝑜too highly can cause 𝐺to output strokes
that are too easily distinguishable from real by the discriminator.
This is partially due to the assumption that the geometric distri-
bution 𝑝(g) imposed by the geometry dataset G is similar to the
(unknown) geometric distribution of real stylized data X, as detailed
in §3.1. In addition, our goal is not to force the generator to adhere
to the input g too precisely. The edge properties of natural media,
such as rough edges of a painted stroke and fibers of a fuzzy string
are important elements of the medium that the generator should
synthesize despite the input stroke, thus violating precise guidance
boundaries. We, therefore, experiment with several modes of apply-
ing L𝑔𝑒𝑜. In the first mode, we simply add L𝑔𝑒𝑜weighed by 𝛾to
the standard adversarial loss L𝐺(L19) in the main training phase.
In the second mode, we only apply L𝑔𝑒𝑜every 𝑇𝑔𝑒𝑜iterations in a
separate geometry phase, modifying only some geo_layers of 𝐺. In
addition, we experiment with different preprocessors in Eq.4. We
ablate all of these choices in our experiments (§6.3).
3.6
Finetuning for Control
Because L𝑔𝑒𝑜is only used to gently steer 𝐺toward controllable
output, as discussed above, generator is free to evolve many styles
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 7 =====
Neural Brushstroke Engine:
Learning a Latent Style Space of Interactive Drawing Tools
•
269:7
that have non-clear background alpha, which is obvious when
strokes are composited (Fig.4, left image). After training, we ad-
ditionally finetune some layers of 𝐺(Alg.1, L15-17) to improve the
clarity of background and use the following loss to ensure that the
final appearance of output patches remains the same:
L𝑓𝑖𝑛𝑒(g,𝐴, x′, x′
∗) = 𝑎L𝑔𝑒𝑜(g,𝐴)+𝑏LPIPS(x′, x′
∗)+𝑐𝐿1(x′, x′
∗) (5)
where x′∗is the output of the generator before finetuning, and 𝐿1
and perceptual LPIPS [Zhang et al. 2018] constrain the network to
maintain its final high-quality result and only change alpha map
𝐴and color c outputs for better control, and 𝑎, 𝑏, 𝑐are constants.
Without affecting the appearance of final styles or training stability,
the fine-tuning stage has a strong effect on background clarity of
styles in the latent space (See Fig.4 before and after finetuning).
Because we stop finetuning before any degradation to final style
appearance (measured as FID) and because IoU loss (§3.4) does not
necessarily encourage confident output of𝛼2, some light background
can still remain for some styles (See Fig.4, 3rd image from the left),
causing artifacts during compositing. In most cases 𝛼2 is mostly
clear and only a small adjustment is needed. We found that for any
brush style 𝑧, the 𝛼2 in the background region is universally stable
across patches generated for any input stroke g (e.g. as in Fig.3). We
attribute this to the strong influence of the style w at every layer of
StyleGAN. Because of this property of 𝐴, we can compute a constant
adjustment function for alphas𝐴of any style to improve background
clarity. This simple constant alpha reweighing is computed in real-
time for any new 𝑧and is detailed in Supplementary Material (SM).
Typical effect of alpha reweighing is demonstrated in Fig.4, and
most results throughout the paper use this setting.
4
PAINTING ENGINE DESIGN
A patch-based generator 𝐺that can stylize strokes in many media
has limited applications, unless it can be used for interactive drawing
on a larger canvas. In this section we complete the design of Neural
Brushstroke Engine and present the painting engine that utilizes 𝐺
to allow interactive (or automatic) painting on a canvas of any size.
4.1
Painting Engine
We design the painting engine by considering two components: the
client receiving interactive user strokes and displaying rendered
canvas, and the server able to stylize stroke patches using 𝐺(refer
to Fig.5 throughout this section). This abstraction applies both when
the client and the server are collocated within the same application
Fig. 4. Finetuning: effect of finetuning the generator 𝐺and applying style-
specific alpha reweighing to improve background clarity (§3.5).
on the same machine, and when the server is remote and communi-
cation happens over the network. The client maintains two canvases
of any user-selected size 𝑊𝐶× 𝐻𝐶. The hidden stroke canvas cap-
tures brush interactions and allows rendering plain strokes using
any naive method, such as sphere splatting. The foreground render
canvas shows strokes rendered in the chosen style using 𝐺.
The client maintains a brush state, such as the id of the latent
code 𝑧and currently selected colors 𝑐0,𝑐1, and communicates these
values to the server to maintain consistent state. The server main-
tains the value of the active brush style. We omit communication
of brush state from Fig.5, because the exact API depends on the
application. For example, a different protocol will be needed when
the client allows searching for styles using a natural language query
(§5.3). The rest of the communication is demonstrated in Fig.5. The
client tracks location of drawing cursor and renders plain lines on
the stroke canvas. Whenever the size of the dirty window that has
been modified exceeds certain size (we use 𝐻/2, where 𝐻is the
output resolution of 𝐺), the client crops a stroke patch of size 𝐻×𝐻
centered at the dirty window and sends it to the server, requesting
a new image. Every image request includes patch location 𝑥𝑖,𝑦𝑖
within the canvas. The server asynchronously sends back a (po-
tentially cropped) patch and its location, and the client replaces
the corresponding patch of the render canvas with the new value.
We next describe techniques for avoiding stitching artifacts in this
patch-based generation.
4.2
Seamless Stitching
Patch-based generation can introduce stitching artifacts (Fig.6, top),
as noted in [Fish et al. 2020]. Their work remedies this by teaching
a network trained for a specific style to complete input patches, en-
suring that partially generated pattern is continued smoothly. This
technique imposes constraints on the order of generated patches,
which cannot be met during interactive drawing.
To achieve nearly seamless stitching, we combine two solutions.
First, we observe that the strongest artifacts occur due to boundary
effects and simply crop a margin 𝑚from all generated patches, no-
ticeably improving quality (Fig.6, middle row). The second part of
the solution is inspired by [Yu et al. 2019a], who learn to blend tex-
tures in feature space. Rather than learning to blend, complicating
our training and inference set up, we show that simply blending
patches in feature space achieves nearly seamless generation for
most styles (See our video and all result figures). In order to imple-
ment this solution, we first select a feature blending level 𝛽, which
corresponds to feature maps at the resolution 𝐻/𝛽. The server main-
tains a feature canvas of size 𝑊𝐶/𝛽× 𝐻𝐶/𝛽and a corresponding
feature mask, indicating which parts of the feature canvas have
been set (Fig.5). For a new image request at 𝑥𝑖,𝑦𝑖, the server crops
the corresponding 𝐻/𝛽× 𝐻/𝛽feature patch ¯𝑓𝑖and computes a soft
blending alpha map 𝑀. Given input stroke g and style, we first com-
pute the feature map 𝑓𝑖at the corresponding layer of StyleGAN, and
then blend it as follows before passing it to the next layer:
𝑓′
𝑖= ¯𝑓𝑖· 𝑀+ 𝑓𝑖· (1 −𝑀).
(6)
The alpha map 𝑀is set to 0 where feature canvas has no features,
and to 1 minus fixed soft fall off (Fig.5, bottom right) everywhere
else. The fall off is zero beyond the crop margin 𝑚, and is a soft
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 8 =====
269:8
•
Shugrina et al.
Fig. 5. Interactive System Design: we design a painting engine for interactive (or automatic) painting on a canvas of arbitrary size (See §4).
Fig. 6. Seamless Stitching: see §4.2 for techniques shown.
linear blend within an additional blending margin 𝑚2. We typically
set 𝑚= 8 and 𝑚2 = 16/𝛽for 𝐻= 128. The final generator output
is cropped by 𝑚and sent back to the client. Bottom of Fig.6 shows
final strokes; note that 𝛼2 transparency is not applied here.
Discussion: We have experimented with several ways of using
the feature canvas interactively. Replacing rather than compositing
render canvas patches on the client side results in a "live" feeling
of the canvas, where new strokes interact with existing strokes.
Clearing feature canvas between every continuous stroke ensures
that strokes of different colors can be composited and that eraser can
be applied as usual. However, this technique also requires baking
the render canvas and clearing the stroke canvas, thus reducing this
"live" feeling because new strokes no longer interact with the canvas.
We believe the feature canvas can provide additional creative control
and have allowed our user study participants to manually create a
new "live layer", thus controlling stroke interaction.
4.3
Prototype User Interface
To validate the claim that Neural Brushstroke Engine can power a
digital painting program, we implement an interactive user interface
as a web application that efficiently communicates with 𝐺on the
remote GPU server. This design allows the widest distribution by
offloading resource-intensive StyleGAN to the cloud. To balance
network throughput with interactive response, we set a rather con-
servative window on the dirty window size (§4.1). Our client works
on desktop or mobile browsers, supporting stylus input (see Video).
While we provide a UI for color selection, stroke thickness and
a menu of random, curated, and text-driven brushes, the design
of the right interface solutions for creative tools built over Neural
Brushstroke Engine is not a contribution of our work.
4.4
Automatic Generation
Our painting engine also trivially applies to automatic stylization
of larger line drawings. We simply break down the input into a
set of overlapping geometric patches (Fig.6 top; Fig.8c, 1), with the
overlap set according to the stitching parameters 𝑚and 𝑚2 (§4.2).
Then, the stitching technique §4.2 is applied to render these patches
sequentially, which is fast unless the artwork is exceedingly large.
Automatic generation allows Neural Brushstroke Engine to stylize
line drawing in many styles (Fig.8c, Fig. 5 in SM).
5
EXPLORING BRUSH STYLES
In this section, we describe ways to explore the latent space of
brushes supported by Neural Brushstroke Engine. Because this space
is continuous by constructions (latent z is sampled from a Gaussian),
it enables gradient-based optimization and search of brushes, e.g.
to match an example (§5.2) or a text query (§5.3). Styles can also be
smoothly interpolated (§5.4). These applications are not exhaustive,
and merely show the range of possibilities enabled by a shared
continuous latent space of interactive drawing tools.
5.1
Evaluating Control
All styles are not created equal. Geometric control and clarity of
background defined by the predicted 𝛼2 vary greatly among ran-
domly sampled styles. We note that the quality of control varies for
physical media as well. For example, "painting" with non-traditional
media like a string of beads lacks conventional control of the paint
brush. In §3.5, we improve the overall control and quality of the
styles, but this does not eliminate all difficult-to-control styles from
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 9 =====
Neural Brushstroke Engine:
Learning a Latent Style Space of Interactive Drawing Tools
•
269:9
the latent space. However, this does not preclude its practical appli-
cation, as we can simply filter and search styles while considering
their controllability, quantified below.
There is no perfect metric to measure how well the input stroke
g is respected in the final output. For some styles it may be desir-
able to hallucinate rough edges deviating from the input (imagine
watercolor bleeding into the paper). In other cases, thinner lines
may be appropriate (e.g. pencils only come in a small diameter). We
explored a number of metrics for geometric control, but settled on a
easy to understand measure of background clarity (BGC) to gauge
control and compositing quality for a given style z:
BGC𝑃(z, {g𝑖}) =
Í
𝑖|𝛼2(g𝑖, z) · 𝑃(g𝑖)|𝑠
Í
𝑖|𝑃(g𝑖)|𝑠
,
(7)
where 𝛼2(g𝑖, z) is the 𝛼2 output of the generator, given style z and
input g, and operations are defined as in Eq.3. 𝑃is a preprocessor
that sets background pixels to 1 and others to 0. We will use 𝑃later
to allow treating the edge of the stroke with more flexibility. This
metric is not vulnerable to unintuitive effects of averaging, because
of 𝛼2 stability in the background of any style (see §3.5).
5.2
Style Embedding
Mapping, or embedding, a real image into the GAN latent space has
been widely used for editing of real photographs, e.g. [Abdal et al.
2020]. In the case of Neural Brushstroke Engine, encoding an image
of a real medium into the latent style space of 𝐺allows painting
with the encoded tool. This means that embedded styles must work
robustly for novel input strokes.
To drive latent code optimization, we require an image in the
target style and the corresponding stroke geometry, from which
we sample paired patches {g𝑖, ¯x𝑖} = 𝑇. Given stroke inputs g𝑖, the
goal is to optimize latent code w (See background in §3.1) such that
the generated images x𝑖look like the targets ¯x𝑖. Following [Abdal
et al. 2019], we optimize into the extended W+ space, which means
optimizing for a separate w code for every layer of StyleGAN. Our
optimization is based on [Karras et al. 2020b], who also optimize
for and regularize StyleGAN noise inputs, which are 1-channel
images of the same resolution as the corresponding StyleGAN layers
and are typically fixed or set to random values. We found that
both optimizing into W+ and optimizing for (and relying on) noise
improve quality of the output style both when overfitting to a single
target patch and when optimizing across patches (Fig. 7a). In contrast
to other GAN embedding methods, where the optimized latent is the
means for downstream editing, our embedded style is the interactive
tool itself. It is therefore not necessary to minimize reliance on noise,
and we use both w+ and optimized 𝜂in the obtained style.
Beyond embedding quality, the optimized styles must work well
interactively. First, we found that including more patches in 𝑇
greatly improves robustness to novel stroke inputs (Fig.7b). Note
that we filter patches to not be blank, and randomize scale to ensure
robustness to different thicknesses. We use 60 target patches for all
of our results. Second, because styles vary in their controllability
(§5.1), we steer optimization toward styles with good compositing
by adding BGC metric to the overall optimization objective:
Lemb = 𝛾BGC𝑃(w+,𝜂, {g𝑖}) +
∑︁
g𝑖,¯x𝑖∈𝑇
LPIPS(x𝑖, ¯x𝑖),
(8)
(a) Optimizing noise and using W+ improve quality
(b) Optimizing with more patches generalizes better to new strokes
(c) Geometry input affects resulting control
Fig. 7. Real Style Embedding: effect of various factors on latent code
optimization (§5.2). All drawings ©Maria Shugrina.
where LPIPS is perceptual loss [Zhang et al. 2018] between the tar-
gets and generated images. BGC is computed as in Eq.7, but style is
defined as w+ and 𝜂, and we use a preprocessing operator 𝑃(g𝑖) that
blurs the black-on-white input and sets pure white pixels to 1 and
the rest to 0, producing a conservative estimate of the background
region. 𝑃prevents penalizing the generator for hallucinating a cus-
tom edge for the stroke, an important aspect of a brush. We found
𝛾= 0.1 sufficient to produce high-quality interactive styles.
While it is tempting to remove the requirement of paired inputs
for style embedding, the target geometry provides important guid-
ance for control qualities of the resulting style. For example, in Fig.7c,
embedding pom-pom style using a precise segmentation map as the
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 10 =====
269:10
•
Shugrina et al.
(a) Style interpolation in the W space.
(b) Style interpolation between projected styles in the W+ and noise space.
(c) Sketch stylization using patch-based synthesis, interpolation of styles.
(d) Style blending during drawing
Fig. 8. Style Interpolation and Line Drawing Stylization: Our method allows interpolation of brushes (a, b). The interactive painting engine (§4.4) can also
be used for automatic line drawing stylization (c, where middle style is interpolated). Finally, feature blending makes it possible to blend multiple styles while
drawing a single artwork (d), ©Maria Shugrina.
geometry results in a style that takes all cues on stroke boundary
from g input, producing solid pom-pom-textured lines (top). On
the other hand, using a solid stroke as guidance during optimiza-
tion results in a style that attempts to break up novel strokes into
pom-pom pieces (bottom). In practice, we use thresholded targets as
geometry to embed most styles in our examples, and would like to
consider optimizing for additional control qualities in future work.
5.3
Style Search using CLIP
Many methods have been developed for semantic editing of images
using GANs [Härkönen et al. 2020; Ling et al. 2021; Shen et al. 2020;
Zhu et al. 2021] for domains such as human faces and cars, where
semantics have a well-defined meaning. For example, faces have
poses, hair and skin color and facial expressions – universal modes
of variation recognizable to every one. Even unsupervised methods
like [Härkönen et al. 2020] rely on intuition about semantics to
demonstrate meaningful edit directions. In trying to apply such
methods to exploration of our latent space we came upon the real-
ization that no such standard semantic controls exist for the space of
drawing media. Even professional artists in our user study (§7), well
versed in the terminology of the field, used non-standard metaphors
to describe qualities of the brushes, for example: "these look very
biological, they remind me of DNA", "this looks like cement", "this
brush reminds me of lizard skin", "this one looks like watercolor
when you try to get rid of it using a paper towel". Inspired by these
observations, we prototype a flexible natural language search over
the latent space, rather than trying to define several high-level di-
rections that capture fixed variations.
We leverage CLIP [Radford et al. 2021], a model trained on large
paired corpora of text and images, making it possible to map text
and images into the same embedding space. We follow the approach
in §5.2 and optimize for w+ and noise 𝜂, given a geometry dataset
G and natural language query q, using the following loss:
Lclip = CLIP(q, x𝑖) + 𝛾BGC𝑃(w+,𝜂, g𝑖) + 𝜃L𝑃
𝑔𝑒𝑜(g𝑖,𝐴),
(9)
where the quantity is averaged for a mini-batch of {𝑔𝑖} ∈G, CLIP
is cosine similarity between the text embedding of q and image
embedding of the generated patch x𝑖, and BGC is the same as in Eq.8.
Unlike embedding, where paired geometry forces the optimization
toward controllable styles, we found CLIP and BGC alone result in
very difficult to control styles, and add additional geometric loss
from Eq.4. This addition dramatically improves control.
Ideally, queries should retrieve styles in real time, but embed-
ding optimization can take minutes to converge, especially with
the larger batch sizes (See §5.2). To warm-start optimization, we
perform fast search over w samples (5000, filtered by BGC ≥0.9),
and start optimizing from the w closest to the input query q. This
cuts down iterations by 10x, from on average 2000 to only 200. With
precomputed CLIP embeddings for styles, initial search provides
an instantaneous (35ms) initial guess for the style. Subsequent op-
timization takes on average 48 seconds on A6000 GPU, and it is
possible to continuously update brush for interactive preview.
5.4
Style Interpolation
As any GAN, Neural Brushstroke Engine allows interpolation of
styles in the latent space (Fig.8a). To our knowledge, ours is the
first system to support interpolation between interactive drawing
tools. With our automatic generation (§4.4) we can also interpolate
between line drawing stylizations (Fig.8b, middle style) and also
within a single artwork (Fig.8d) by leveraging feature blending (§4.2).
6
EXPERIMENTS AND EVALUATION
In this section we present our experimental setup, and main results.
See SM for details on data and experiments and more results.
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 11 =====
Neural Brushstroke Engine:
Learning a Latent Style Space of Interactive Drawing Tools
•
269:11
(a) Data used for our experiments.
(b) Strong 𝐸𝑔𝑒𝑜and weak 𝐸Δ𝑔𝑒𝑜encoder reconstructions.
(c) Ablation studies for generator training.
Fig. 9. Training Data and Ablations: refer to §6.1, §6.2 and §6.3.
6.1
Datasets and Metrics
We informally captured two style datasets (Fig.9a) using a hand-
held mobile phone. Style 1 contains 146 scribbles of common phys-
ical and digital tools like paints and crayons. Style 2 contains 241
photos of eclectic materials, like ribbons and beads. To obtain patch
datasets X1 and X2, we draw random patches and augment them
with standard image processing, expanding the training set diversity.
As a proxy for user control, we use a synthetic geometry dataset
of random splines (Fig.9a), cut into a patch dataset G. It is not our
goal to generate this exact geometry, but to let the generator styl-
ize strokes with realistic edges, shadows and splatters. To support
softer edge losses, we automatically preprocess G into a tri-band
dataset, where curve boundaries are marked "uncertain". In Eq.4, the
tri-band operator Δ(g) converts uncertain regions into gray prior
to loss computation. This is only used for the loss.
Like other GANs, our model is challenging to evaluate. We mea-
sure performance along two axes. To quantify control, we use
BGC (Eq.7). For diversity, we rely on Fréchet Inception Distance
(FID) [Heusel et al. 2017], a standard metric for distribution mis-
match between training and generated images. Note that we use
pre-processed real geometry for FID computation. Our preliminary
test (See SM) validates FID as a reasonable metric for style diver-
sity, but we also observe below that it cannot be trusted absolutely.
Compared to datasets like faces, our data is very unstructured, and
matching FID results on other datsets is a non-goal.
6.2
Training Settings and Variables
Our default training setup uses resolution 𝐻= 128 and injects
geometry from 𝑓0 and 𝑓1 of 𝐸𝑔𝑒𝑜at the 8𝑥8 and 16𝑥16 Synthesis
Blocks (§3.3). We keep the autoencoder architecture fixed (see SM),
but experiment with two trained variants: a standard 𝐸𝑔𝑒𝑜trained
on G, and a weaker, less precise 𝐸Δ𝑔𝑒𝑜trained by applying Δ (§6.1) to
the ground truth before computing the loss (See Fig.9b). Similarly,
we experiment with the standard L𝑔𝑒𝑜(Eq.4) and a weaker LΔ𝑔𝑒𝑜
that uses Δ. Finally, we test using the geometry loss weighted by𝛾in
the main𝐺update step, or instead using a separate geometry update
phase activated every 𝑇𝑔𝑒𝑜= 200 iterations (§3.5). See bottom of
Fig.9c for details on variants. All ablations use Style 1.
We run geometry warm-starting for 50K images and overall train-
ing for 10M images (see SM, B.1). In all cases, geo_layers(𝐺) (Alg.1)
are set to the last synthesis layer and the ToTriad layer, which we
found to work more consistently. We report quantitative results
prior to geometry finetuning, and only apply finetuning for 1M
images for all qualitative results (𝑎,𝑏,𝑐= 0.5 in Eq.5). Finetuning
dramatically improves the practical usability of our model (See Fig.6
and SM), but improved control without degrading quality has only
been observed for models that already have a higher than random
BGC. Therefore, tracking this metric during training is important.
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 12 =====
269:12
•
Shugrina et al.
(a) Strokes in random styles from Styles 1 model
(b) Strokes in random styles from the Styles 2 model
(c) watercolor
(d) playdoh
(e) pastels
(f) "candy cane"
(g) "Burnt Umber oil paint"
Fig. 10. Qualitative Results: Interactive strokes in random styles (a,b) and interactive drawings with color control and compositing using embedded styles
(c,d,e) or CLIP-based styles (f,g) . Model trained on Styles 1 is used for c,e,g. Model trained on Styles 2 is used for d,f. All art ©Maria Shugrina.
6.3
Ablations
While ablating design choices above, we discovered high sensitivity
of training to the random network initialization. Thus, we take
an unconventional approach and plot the distribution of metrics
across 5 runs with different random seeds. For each run we pick the
checkpoint with the lowest FID score. Refer to Fig.9c.
We have significantly modified StyleGAN2 architecture, by adding
intermediate outputs and injecting geometry. We fist train vanilla
StyleGAN2 (Fig.9c, A) on our unstructured domain, then add ToTriad
layer (B). Because ToTriad layer necessarily constrains the output
image space to linear blends of three colors, a significant degra-
dation in the FID is expected. What is surprising is that despite a
nearly 4x jump in FID from A to B, the actual fake images for B
look more natural to the naked eye (top row). We therefore do not
take this degradation too seriously, but we have observed FID to
yield meaningful comparison across the runs of our model. Next,
we inject geometry using default settings without applying any
geometric losses (C). This modification causes the sudden jump in
training instability. While we have tried some initial approaches,
we leave further investigation to future work.
Among D-L variants of our model, F and I provide the lowest (best)
median FID with fewer outliers, and higher (better) or comparative
median BGC. Both of these runs use geometry phase𝑇𝑔𝑒𝑜= 200 and
either weak encoder and exact L𝑔𝑒𝑜(F) or precise encoder and tri-
band LΔ𝑔𝑒𝑜(I). The plain variant (D) using only raw G fails to reach
the best FID values for any runs. We next examine variants of F and I
runs that instead use main𝐺update phase for geometric loss (G,H,L).
For higher geometric loss𝛾(H,L), at least one of the runs destabilizes
with a very high FID. In addition 𝐵𝑐𝑙𝑒𝑎𝑟for all three, including G
with a more reasonable FID range, has very low outliers, signaling
that geometric loss both affects the 𝐺quality and fails to make a
significant difference on controllability when applied in the main
phase. Skipping warmstarting (J) degrades FID compared to (I). We
hypothesize that this is because the geometric loss interferes with
the loss on the generator if the initialized network skews toward
picking a different alpha for the background. Finally, injecting only
𝑓0 at 8𝑥8 block completely degrades background control (L). While
the best trained variants (F,I) appear similar by the metrics, with
F perhaps slightly better, we observe that I feels more controllable
during interactive drawing.
6.4
Qualitative Results and Applications
All qualitative results come from two models trained on Style 1 and
2 with condition I (§6.3). While we observed great diversity and
interesting novel appearance in random brushes from our model
(Fig.10a,b), the more powerful aspect of Neural Brushstroke Engine
is its ability to generalize to unseen styles, enabling interactive
drawing with a broad range of style targets (Fig.10,c-g).
6.4.1
Brush Style Embedding. We modify the default settings of
StyleGAN2 [Karras et al. 2020b] following §5.2 and set noise regu-
larization to 10. We optimize for 5000 steps, but terminate if LPIPS
fails to improve for 100 iterations. First, we show results of training
styles embedded into the corresponding models (§11a). Note that
all pictures are drawn interactively with the optimized styles. For
traditional media (Style 1), we observe excellent match between
optimized styles and targets, even with noisy targets (Fig.11a, 3),
with optimized styles mimicking watercolor (1), viscous paint (2),
oil pastel (3), dry paintbrush (4), and crayon (5). The large scale
structures of Style 2 are harder for our generator to replicate, as
nothing in its architecture ensures consistency of larger structures
like beads across patches. The very motivation for constructing
Style 2 dataset was to push the limits of this method and show how
future work could improve on our technique. Still, we observe that
training styles embed into Style 2 model to achieve a similar feel,
and contain fine aspect like frilly edge of lace (6), shiny bead-like
pieces (7), shadows (8), textural elements of lego (9), and the crease
of the playdoh line (10). Good embedding of training styles suggests
that the latent space covers the training distribution well.
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 13 =====
Neural Brushstroke Engine:
Learning a Latent Style Space of Interactive Drawing Tools
•
269:13
(a) Embedding training styles into corresponding models
(b) Embedding unseen out-of distribution styles into the models: Styles 1 into model trained on Styles 2, and vice versa.
Fig. 11. Style Embedding Results: Embedding training styles into the corresponding latent space (a) achieves excellent match to target media, with the
exception of larger-scale structures of Style 2. Embedding unseen styles into the models (b) achieves surprisingly faithful results, showing generalization of our
model. All drawings are made interactively using optimized styles. Closest training patches, retrieved for each target style using NNFM loss, confirm that the
latent space expresses styles beyond its training set (b).
6.4.2
Brush Style Embedding Generalization. What speaks to the
power of our approach more strongly is the ability of our trained
models to generalize to unseen out-of-distribution styles (Fig.11b).
We embed traditional media from Style 1 into the model trained
on Styles 2 in (1-5), and achieve excellent look and feel of drawing
tools from a model that has not seen any paint strokes, pencils,
pastels or chalk (Styles 2 are entirely composed of non-traditional
materials like beads and yarn). Similarly, the model trained on Styles
1 is able to reconstruct bead-like brushes, yarn, and shadow effects
(6,7,8) without ever seeing these styles during training. To show best
matching training styles, we use nearest neighbor feature matching
(NNFM) distance recently shown to be more robust for style transfer
than Gram matrix in some cases [Zhang et al. 2022] to find a training
patch (post augmentation) that can replicate the target style best.
We show that for training styles (Fig.11a), NNFM correctly retrieves
patches from the corresponding training image. On the other hand,
closest training patches for out-of-distribution styles are visually
very different from the target (Fig.11b). Of course, there are limits
to generalization possible and Style 1 model struggles much more
with the lego effect (Fig.11b, 9 vs Fig.11a, 9), but we find the overall
quality of unseen style reconstructions rather astonishing for mod-
els trained on our small-scale datasets. This generalization ability
pushes us to explore further applications.
6.4.3
Optimizing Artwork Styles. Imagine a philosophically oppo-
site approach to Neural Style Transfer ([Gatys et al. 2016] and others).
Instead of a neural network that paints new images in the style of
the target artwork automatically, cutting the user out of the creative
loop, let us design an approach that will instead produce a toolbox of
brushes that can be used to interactively create new art in the style
of the target artwork. We show an exploration of this in Fig.12. In or-
der to optimize brushes given target artwork, we first mark several
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 14 =====
269:14
•
Shugrina et al.
Fig. 12. Embedding Artwork Brushes: We mark several regions of target art (a, inset) and optimize a brush for each, enabling interactive drawing in the
style of the target art. Insets show that our optimized brushes match target style much better than professional software. See SM for additional examples.
Target art and other drawings ©Maria Shugrina.
areas of the target as corresponding to the same kinds of brush (See
Fig.12, onion inset). Then, we use the regions marked for each brush
as the target geometry and perform style embedding (§5.2), with one
small modification. Because input art contains other brushstrokes,
we optimize for styles that composite into the target art in place
of the marked brush regions (replaced with a background color)
to match target patch appearance. While we leave thorough explo-
ration of automatic techniques and robustness to future work, we
have observed promising results for all examples we have tried (see
SM for additional results). Fig.12 shows target artwork and novel
artwork created using brushes retrieved from Neural Brushstroke
Engine’s latent space. We have also attempted to match the look
and feel of the drawing tools using two commercial applications,
while color picking from the target artwork. For Procreate iPad
App, the "Blotchy" brush most resembled the target, and in Adobe
Fresco we selected marker brush, as that is the physical tool that
was used for this art. Details in Fig.12 reveal a much more faithful
reconstruction of target textures in the new art painted with our
optimized brushes, than with commercial software. There are in
fact infinite art media, as even something as simple as a marker will
interact differently with every kind of paper, creating boundless
variations. A continuous latent space is a way to begin modeling
digital tools as diverse and expressive as the physical world.
6.4.4
Natural Language Style Search. In §5.3, we motivate natural
language search over drawing tools and propose a technique to
make it possible. Interactive drawings with brushes retrieved using
just the shown text queries are shown in Fig.10f-g and Fig.13a. We
include many more results of this early exploration in SM, Fig. S7.
We find that the Style 2 model is able to mimic styles very far from
the training set, like "pine needles" and "pink flowers" (Fig.13a).
The same figure also shows the closest training patch to a given
text query by finding a training patch, post augmentation, with the
smallest cosine distance to the query text embedding. This exper-
iment shows that our latent space can support styles beyond the
training set. We further show in Fig.13, that the optimized styles can
be continuously interpolated to produce a smoothly varying stroke
in image space (see §5.4). In contrast to CLIP-based optimization
of the final results (e.g. [Michel et al. 2021]), where there is only
(a) Interpolation between CLIP brushes
(b) Failure cases of CLIP optimization
Fig. 13. Natural Language Brush Search: We show results of brushes
retrieved from our latent space using only shown queries (a). We show that
obtained brushes can also be smoothly interpolated, for example by mapping
control such as stylus pressure to the alpha used for interpolation. Note
that the closest training patches, retrieved using cosine similarity between
query and image embedding, are quite far from the optimized styles and
the text description. In b, we show some failure cases of CLIP-based style
search. See SM for more results.
one output that the user has no way of controlling, our approach re-
turns a tool, which the user can explore and discover unanticipated
uses for. We hope that this observation will inspire others to use
text guidance to discover interactive tools. Text-based retrieval is
a promising direction for future work, and the results of our sim-
ple implementation are not always successful. In Fig.13b, we show
failure cases, such as inability to find a suitable style (b1, query:
"daisies"), and lack of understanding of basic properties like color
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 15 =====
Neural Brushstroke Engine:
Learning a Latent Style Space of Interactive Drawing Tools
•
269:15
Fig. 14. Comparison of our patch-level generator against Linear Style [Li et al. 2019], MUNIT [Huang et al. 2018] and DRIT++[Lee et al. 2020], showing
random styles (left) and fixed styles (right). Note that DRIT++ fails to generate consistent styles across geometry inputs.
(b2, query: "birch"). Optimization with CLIP loss is also sensitive
to the starting point and can get stuck in local minima, and in the
cases when an appropriate style for a query exists in training data
(b3), embedding of the style (§5.2, Fig.13b-3, far right) may produce
more pleasing interactive styles than less-supervised search with
a text query. We also found that CLIP embeddings were perhaps
not as knowledgeable about art terminology and various kinds of
paint. There is a big opportunity to teach our text-driven AI agents
to understand not only the realistic world around us, but qualities
of the tools we use to create.
6.4.5
Other Applications. Styles from the latent space of Neural
Brushstroke Engine can also be interpolated interactively. For ex-
ample, stylus pressure can map to an alpha weight in the linear
interpolation of styles, and feature blending (§4.2) can provide ad-
ditional smoothness. The image in Fig.8d was drawn by blending
three CLIP-optimized styles from Fig.13. In addition to interactive
applications, we show the ability of our generator and painting
engine to stylize line drawings automatically (Fig.8c and SM Fig. S5).
We hope that the latent space of interactive artistic tools will open
new creative possibilities. Our differentiable stroke renderer could
be used to improve stroke-based stylization techniques, including
those using reinforcement learning (§2).
Table 2. Quantitative Comparisons: we compare our generator with other
unsupervised image-to-image translation methods using FID metric.
Method
FID
Style Consistency
(Styles1, real geometry)
(for different inputs)
[Li et al. 2019]
108.64
[Lee et al. 2020]
74.74
×
Ours
70.137
6.5
Comparison with Baselines
We compare the performance of our generator 𝐺with comparable
image-to-image translation methods that, like our method, 1) are
trained on unpaired images from two domains and 2) can generate
diverse translations for a single image in one domain to multiple
images in the other domain. To our knowledge, state-of-the-art
image-to-image translation methods fulfilling both 1) and 2) are
MUNIT[Huang et al. 2018] and DRIT++[Lee et al. 2020]. We also
compare against a fast style transfer method of [Li et al. 2019] that
could power an interactive application. We used official repositories
provided by the three methods, and first validated that training
produced high-quality results on standard datasets these methods
were tested on. Training was done using synthetic geometry as
domain A and Style 1 as domain B.
We show qualitative results in Fig.14. For MUNIT, we trained
on 8 GPUs (the recommended setting) and base our settings on
the edges2shoes config, summer2winter config, as well as sum-
mer2winter with image_recon and content_recon set to 5, in be-
tween the two official configs. We also took guidance from the
method authors on training modifications, but could not avoid mode
collapse, where nearly the same style is generated for all style sam-
ples and inputs. While we have not exhaustively sampled settings,
this experiment shows that this method does not work out of the box
for our very unstructured domain. We had much better luck with
DRIT++, which we modified to run on modern pytorch and trained
using default settings. While DRIT++ achieves competitive look
and FID (Tb.2), it has a flaw that precludes its use for patch-based
generation in a given style. Observe results for different geometries
and fixed style code in the right half of Fig.14. While our stylized
patches are consistent across translations, DRIT++ produces dif-
ferent brush styles for different input geometries, perhaps because
imperfect style-content disambiguation is achieved. This means that
no unsupervised image-to-image translation method can be used
out of the box to replace our generator G, not to mention support
compositing and color control. We also compare against the style
transfer method of [Li et al. 2019] (retrained on our domain), and
experimented with choosing different style and content layers. We
found setting "r41" as the content layer and "r21", "r31" as the style
layers produced the best results. Because this method does not learn
a latent space of styles, we simply sample target styles from our
training set to obtain random stylizations (Fig.14). This method is
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 16 =====
269:16
•
Shugrina et al.
Fig. 15. User study: Sample doodles created by our user study participants.
Note that participants were not instructed to create a complete artwork,
but to simply try a variety of styles (See §7).
stable for a style and produces decent results, but contains repeti-
tive artifacts and fails to match the realism of our strokes or FID.
It also does not learn a latent space of styles, nor supports stroke
compositing or color control.
7
USER STUDY
We conducted an expert user study by recruiting 6 participants with
professional-level experience in digital art. The goal of this kind of
study is to collect insights on a specific application domain from
highly skilled experts in that area. We chose this approach, because
feedback from digital art practitioners carries much more weight
than feedback from novices who will be a) unfamiliar with digital
brushes that already exist, b) may be distracted by various aspects of
working digitally, c) may respond positively because of the novelty
of digital drawing, not through comparison with existing tools, or
by analyzing if our novel brushes fit the requirements of their trade.
The main goal was to evaluate the quality of the brush styles in
the latent space of our generator, as well as the feel and usability
of interactive drawing using Neural Brushstroke Engine. Note that
it was not our goal to implement and test interfaces for all the
applications suggested in §5.
Participants self-identified as professional (5/6) or advanced (1/6)
in digital art, and most were digital artists or illustrators by pro-
fession (4/6). None of the participants were affiliated with the re-
searchers or their institutions in any way. The user study was con-
ducted in person, lasted about 30 minutes, and all participants were
compensated with USD 20. As the hardware, we used iPad with
Apple pencil running our web user interface in Safari browser and
connected to a remote server located in another location on a dif-
ferent network. The goal was to expose users to many different
styles, the main contribution of Neural Brushstroke Engine, in a
realistic environment. For models trained on Style 1 and Style 2, we
generated test styles in 3 different ways:
(1) Set A: Filtered 5K random styles for 𝐵𝐺𝐶> 0.9, resulting in
2579 and 1919 brushes for Style 1 and 2
(2) Set B: Hand-selected a few random styles we felt looked good,
with 55 and 86 brushes for Style 1 and 2
(3) Set C: Projected corresponding training styles into the latent
space of Style 1 (146 brushes) and Style 2 (249) models
During the study, we first asked participants to work with more
traditional Styles 1, and then with Styles 2. For each model, we
randomly presented 9 styles in each set A,B,C and users were asked
to try 2-4 styles in each category. During the study, we recorded
the screen and took notes on participants’ verbal feedback. After
the study, we collected feedback using a questionnaire. While users
were not asked to create complete artworks, Fig.15 shows some
sketches generated during the sessions.
7.1
Feedback
General feedback from users inspired us to try natural language
search (§5.3). Participants picked very different styles from different
sets as their favorite, showing that the style quality is evenly dis-
tributed and subjective. Two users said that they preferred brushes
where both colors in two-color recoloring figured prominently. One
user preferred a style that has a different color when strokes cross
each other. Some users preferred more traditional Styles 1, while
others preferred funky Styles 2. Overall, participants reacted posi-
tively and were surprised by the novel qualities of the drawing styles
presented. When comparing styles resembling physical media, 4/5
participants found that our system presented a wider range of styles.
The main area for improvement was controllability of styles and
latency. All participants cited style control as very mixed across
styles, which prompts us to find better methods to filter for control.
Users also suggested improvements to the two-color recoloring and
other aspects. For example, live layer that can also mix colors and
different media was suggested (something we prototyped later fol-
lowing feedback). On a 5 point Likert scale, 4/6 participants said
that they are very likely (score 5) to use brushes from our model,
if integrated into their daily tools, 1 participant responded with
4 (likely) and one with 3. Most users also said that brushes they
tried would complement and not replace the brushes they use every
day, which is the expected answer, as it is not our aim to replicate
time-honed digital brushes that already exist.
Overall, artist response suggests that Neural Brushstroke Engine
is a viable approach to interactive drawing, and that styles sup-
ported by our latent space are novel, interesting and useful even to
practicing professionals.
8
CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK
We presented Neural Brushstroke Engine, the first method to learn
a latent space of interactive brushes from unlabeled images. In addi-
tion to the trained generator, we presented the design of an interac-
tive drawing system, which we tested with professional artists, and
presented an array of applications, including style embedding, CLIP-
based brush search, optimization of brushes for a target artwork
and line drawing stylization. Our method models the rich variety
of creative media and brings new flexibility and expressiveness to
digital art. We hope that our work will not only open other creative
applications for interactive drawing tools, but inspire other methods
to use AI and deep learning to construct flexible tools that support
direct user interaction and creativity.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
We thank the artists who tested our interface for inspiration and
honest feedback. We are also grateful to Seung Wook Kim for early
discussions, Anita Hu for sample CLIP code, Joyce Zheng for user
study recruitment, and Ming-Yu Liu and Tsung-Yi Lin for help with
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 17 =====
Neural Brushstroke Engine:
Learning a Latent Style Space of Interactive Drawing Tools
•
269:17
the MUNIT baseline. Finally, the first author thanks Yana Levin-
Shugrina who aided heavily in the training data collection.
REFERENCES
Rameen Abdal, Yipeng Qin, and Peter Wonka. 2019. Image2stylegan: How to embed
images into the stylegan latent space?. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International
Conference on Computer Vision. 4432–4441.
Rameen Abdal, Yipeng Qin, and Peter Wonka. 2020. Image2stylegan++: How to edit the
embedded images?. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition. 8296–8305.
Rameen Abdal, Peihao Zhu, John Femiani, Niloy J Mitra, and Peter Wonka. 2021a.
CLIP2StyleGAN: Unsupervised Extraction of StyleGAN Edit Directions. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2112.05219 (2021).
Rameen Abdal, Peihao Zhu, Niloy J Mitra, and Peter Wonka. 2021b. Labels4free: Unsu-
pervised segmentation using stylegan. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International
Conference on Computer Vision. 13970–13979.
Rameen Abdal, Peihao Zhu, Niloy J Mitra, and Peter Wonka. 2021c. Styleflow: Attribute-
conditioned exploration of stylegan-generated images using conditional continuous
normalizing flows. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) 40, 3 (2021), 1–21.
Mahmoud Afifi, Marcus A. Brubaker, and Michael S. Brown. 2021. HistoGAN: Control-
ling Colors of GAN-Generated and Real Images via Color Histograms. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). 7941–
7950.
Yuval Alaluf, Or Patashnik, and Daniel Cohen-Or. 2021. Restyle: A residual-based style-
gan encoder via iterative refinement. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International
Conference on Computer Vision. 6711–6720.
Aibek Alanov, Max Kochurov, Denis Volkhonskiy, Daniil Yashkov, Evgeny Burnaev,
and Dmitry Vetrov. 2019. User-controllable multi-texture synthesis with generative
adversarial networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.04751 (2019).
Amjad Almahairi, Sai Rajeshwar, Alessandro Sordoni, Philip Bachman, and Aaron
Courville. 2018. Augmented cyclegan: Learning many-to-many mappings from
unpaired data. In International Conference on Machine Learning. PMLR, 195–204.
Ryoichi Ando and Reiji Tsuruno. 2010. Segmental Brush Synthesis with Stroke Images..
In Eurographics (Short Papers). 89–92.
David Bau, Hendrik Strobelt, William Peebles, Jonas Wulff, Bolei Zhou, Jun-Yan Zhu,
and Antonio Torralba. 2019. Semantic photo manipulation with a generative image
prior. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) 38, 4 (2019), 1–11.
William Baxter and Naga Govindaraju. 2010. Simple data-driven modeling of brushes.
In Proceedings of the 2010 ACM SIGGRAPH Symposium on interactive 3D Graphics
and Games. 135–142.
William Baxter, Yuanxin Liu, and Ming C. Lin. 2004a.
A viscous paint
model
for
interactive
applications.
Computer
Animation
and
Vir-
tual
Worlds
15,
3-4
(2004),
433–441.
https://doi.org/10.1002/cav.47
arXiv:https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/pdf/10.1002/cav.47
William Baxter, Jeremy Wendt, and Ming C Lin. 2004b. IMPaSTo: A realistic, in-
teractive model for paint. In Proceedings of the 3rd international symposium on
Non-photorealistic animation and rendering. 45–148.
William V Baxter and Ming C Lin. 2004. A versatile interactive 3D brush model. In 12th
Pacific Conference on Computer Graphics and Applications, 2004. PG 2004. Proceedings.
IEEE, 319–328.
Urs Bergmann, Nikolay Jetchev, and Roland Vollgraf. 2017. Learning texture manifolds
with the periodic spatial GAN. arXiv preprint arXiv:1705.06566 (2017).
Andrew Brock, Jeff Donahue, and Karen Simonyan. 2018. Large scale GAN training for
high fidelity natural image synthesis. arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.11096 (2018).
Shu-Yu Chen, Feng-Lin Liu, Yukun Lai, Paul L Rosin, Chunpeng Li, Hongbo Fu, and Lin
Gao. 2021. DeepFaceEditing: deep face generation and editing with disentangled
geometry and appearance control. ACM Transactions on Graphics 40, 4 (2021).
Zhili Chen, Byungmoon Kim, Daichi Ito, and Huamin Wang. 2015. Wetbrush: GPU-
based 3D painting simulation at the bristle level. ACM Transactions on Graphics
(TOG) 34, 6 (2015), 1–11.
Yunjey Choi, Minje Choi, Munyoung Kim, Jung-Woo Ha, Sunghun Kim, and Jaegul
Choo. 2018. Stargan: Unified generative adversarial networks for multi-domain
image-to-image translation. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision
and pattern recognition. 8789–8797.
Nelson Chu, William Baxter, Li-Yi Wei, and Naga Govindaraju. 2010. Detail-preserving
paint modeling for 3D brushes. NPAR Symposium on Non-Photorealistic Animation
and Rendering, 27–34. https://doi.org/10.1145/1809939.1809943
Nelson S-H Chu and Chiew-Lan Tai. 2005. Moxi: real-time ink dispersion in absorbent
paper. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) 24, 3 (2005), 504–511.
Cassidy J Curtis, Sean E Anderson, Joshua E Seims, Kurt W Fleischer, and David H
Salesin. 1997. Computer-generated watercolor. In Proceedings of the 24th annual
conference on Computer graphics and interactive techniques. 421–430.
Stephen DiVerdi. 2013. A brush stroke synthesis toolbox. In Image and Video-Based
Artistic Stylisation. Springer, 23–44.
Stephen DiVerdi, Aravind Krishnaswamy, and Sunil Hadap. 2010. Industrial-strength
painting with a virtual bristle brush. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM Symposium on
Virtual Reality Software and Technology. 119–126.
Zheng-Jun Du, Kai-Xiang Lei, Kun Xu, Jianchao Tan, and Yotam Gingold. 2021. Video
recoloring via spatial-temporal geometric palettes. ACM Transactions on Graphics
(TOG) 40, 4 (2021), 1–16.
Noa Fish, Lilach Perry, Amit H. Bermano, and Daniel Cohen-Or. 2020. SketchPatch:
Sketch Stylization via Seamless Patch-level Synthesis. ACM Trans. Graph. 39 (2020),
227:1–227:14.
Rinon Gal, Dana Cohen Hochberg, Amit Bermano, and Daniel Cohen-Or. 2021a. SWA-
GAN: A style-based wavelet-driven generative model. ACM Transactions on Graphics
(TOG) 40, 4 (2021), 1–11.
Rinon Gal, Or Patashnik, Haggai Maron, Gal Chechik, and Daniel Cohen-Or.
2021b. StyleGAN-NADA: CLIP-Guided Domain Adaptation of Image Generators.
arXiv:2108.00946 [cs.CV]
Leon A. Gatys, Alexander S. Ecker, and Matthias Bethge. 2015. Texture synthesis and
the controlled generation of natural stimuli using convolutional neural networks.
ArXiv abs/1505.07376 (2015).
Leon A. Gatys, Alexander S. Ecker, and Matthias Bethge. 2016. Image Style Transfer
Using Convolutional Neural Networks. 2016 IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (CVPR) (2016), 2414–2423.
Arnab Ghosh, Richard Zhang, Puneet K Dokania, Oliver Wang, Alexei A Efros, Philip HS
Torr, and Eli Shechtman. 2019. Interactive sketch & fill: Multiclass sketch-to-image
translation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer
Vision. 1171–1180.
Ian J Goodfellow, Jean Pouget-Abadie, Mehdi Mirza, Bing Xu, David Warde-Farley,
Sherjil Ozair, Aaron Courville, and Yoshua Bengio. 2014. Generative adversarial
networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1406.2661 (2014).
Erik Härkönen, Aaron Hertzmann, Jaakko Lehtinen, and Sylvain Paris. 2020. Ganspace:
Discovering interpretable gan controls. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems 33 (2020), 9841–9850.
Philipp Henzler, Niloy J Mitra, and Tobias Ritschel. 2020. Learning a neural 3d texture
space from 2d exemplars. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition. 8356–8364.
Aaron Hertzmann. 1998. Painterly rendering with curved brush strokes of multiple sizes.
In Proceedings of the 25th annual conference on Computer graphics and interactive
techniques. 453–460.
Aaron Hertzmann. 2002. Fast paint texture. In Proceedings of the 2nd International
Symposium on Non-photorealistic Animation and Rendering. 91–ff.
Aaron Hertzmann, Charles E Jacobs, Nuria Oliver, Brian Curless, and David H Salesin.
2001. Image analogies. In Proceedings of the 28th annual conference on Computer
graphics and interactive techniques. 327–340.
Martin Heusel, Hubert Ramsauer, Thomas Unterthiner, Bernhard Nessler, and Sepp
Hochreiter. 2017. Gans trained by a two time-scale update rule converge to a local
nash equilibrium. Advances in neural information processing systems 30 (2017).
Xun Huang and Serge Belongie. 2017. Arbitrary style transfer in real-time with adap-
tive instance normalization. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on
Computer Vision. 1501–1510.
Xun Huang, Ming-Yu Liu, Serge Belongie, and Jan Kautz. 2018. Multimodal Unsuper-
vised Image-to-image Translation. In ECCV.
Zhewei Huang, Wen Heng, and Shuchang Zhou. 2019. Learning to paint with model-
based deep reinforcement learning. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International
Conference on Computer Vision. 8709–8718.
Phillip Isola, Jun-Yan Zhu, Tinghui Zhou, and Alexei A. Efros. 2017. Image-to-Image
Translation with Conditional Adversarial Networks. In 2017 IEEE Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR). 5967–5976.
https://doi.org/10.
1109/CVPR.2017.632
Wonjong Jang, Gwangjin Ju, Yucheol Jung, Jiaolong Yang, Xin Tong, and Seungyong Lee.
2021. StyleCariGAN: caricature generation via StyleGAN feature map modulation.
ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) 40, 4 (2021), 1–16.
Tero Karras, Miika Aittala, Janne Hellsten, Samuli Laine, Jaakko Lehtinen, and Timo
Aila. 2020a. Training generative adversarial networks with limited data. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2006.06676 (2020).
Tero Karras, Miika Aittala, Samuli Laine, Erik Härkönen, Janne Hellsten, Jaakko Lehti-
nen, and Timo Aila. 2021. Alias-Free Generative Adversarial Networks. In Proc.
NeurIPS.
Tero Karras, Samuli Laine, and Timo Aila. 2019. A style-based generator architecture
for generative adversarial networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 4401–4410.
Tero Karras, Samuli Laine, Miika Aittala, Janne Hellsten, Jaakko Lehtinen, and Timo
Aila. 2020b. Analyzing and improving the image quality of stylegan. In Proceedings
of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 8110–8119.
Hyunsu Kim, Yunjey Choi, Junho Kim, Sungjoo Yoo, and Youngjung Uh. 2021. Exploiting
Spatial Dimensions of Latent in GAN for Real-Time Image Editing. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 852–861.
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


===== PAGE 18 =====
269:18
•
Shugrina et al.
Mikyung Kim and Hyun Joon Shin. 2010. An Example-based Approach to Synthesize
Artistic Strokes using Graphs. In Computer Graphics Forum, Vol. 29. Wiley Online
Library, 2145–2152.
Hanock Kwak and Byoung-Tak Zhang. 2016. Generating images part by part with
composite generative adversarial networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1607.05387 (2016).
Hsin-Ying Lee, Hung-Yu Tseng, Jia-Bin Huang, Maneesh Singh, and Ming-Hsuan Yang.
2018. Diverse image-to-image translation via disentangled representations. In
Proceedings of the European conference on computer vision (ECCV). 35–51.
Hsin-Ying Lee, Hung-Yu Tseng, Qi Mao, Jia-Bin Huang, Yu-Ding Lu, Maneesh Kumar
Singh, and Ming-Hsuan Yang. 2020. DRIT++: Diverse Image-to-Image Translation
via Disentangled Representations. International Journal of Computer Vision (2020),
1–16.
Xueting Li, Sifei Liu, Jan Kautz, and Ming-Hsuan Yang. 2019. Learning Linear Transfor-
mations for Fast Arbitrary Style Transfer. In IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition.
Yijun Li, Chen Fang, Jimei Yang, Zhaowen Wang, Xin Lu, and Ming-Hsuan Yang. 2017.
Diversified texture synthesis with feed-forward networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 3920–3928.
Huan Ling, Karsten Kreis, Daiqing Li, Seung Wook Kim, Antonio Torralba, and Sanja
Fidler. 2021. EditGAN: High-Precision Semantic Image Editing. In Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS).
Difan Liu, Matthew Fisher, Aaron Hertzmann, and Evangelos Kalogerakis. 2021a. Neu-
ral Strokes: Stylized Line Drawing of 3D Shapes. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV). 14204–14213.
Feng-Lin Liu, Shu-Yu Chen, Yu-Kun Lai, Chunpeng Li, Yue-Ren Jiang, Hongbo Fu, and
Lin Gao. 2022. DeepFaceVideoEditing: Sketch-based Deep Editing of Face Videos.
ACM Transactions on Graphics (Proceedings of ACM SIGGRAPH 2022) 41, 4 (2022),
167:1–167:16.
Guilin Liu, Rohan Taori, Ting-Chun Wang, Zhiding Yu, Shiqiu Liu, Fitsum A Reda, Karan
Sapra, Andrew Tao, and Bryan Catanzaro. 2020. Transposer: Universal Texture
Synthesis Using Feature Maps as Transposed Convolution Filter. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2007.07243 (2020).
Songhua Liu, Tianwei Lin, Dongliang He, Fu Li, Ruifeng Deng, Xin Li, Errui Ding, and
Hao Wang. 2021b. Paint transformer: Feed forward neural painting with stroke
prediction. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF International Conference on Computer
Vision. 6598–6607.
Jingwan Lu, Connelly Barnes, Stephen DiVerdi, and Adam Finkelstein. 2013. Realbrush:
Painting with examples of physical media. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) 32,
4 (2013), 1–12.
Michal Lukáč, Jakub Fišer, Paul Asente, Jingwan Lu, Eli Shechtman, and Daniel S`ykora.
2015. Brushables: Example-based Edge-aware Directional Texture Painting. In
Computer Graphics Forum, Vol. 34. Wiley Online Library, 257–267.
Michal Lukáč, Jakub Fišer, Jean-Charles Bazin, Ondřej Jamriška, Alexander Sorkine-
Hornung, and Daniel S`ykora. 2013. Painting by feature: texture boundaries for
example-based image creation. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) 32, 4 (2013),
1–8.
Liqian Ma, Xu Jia, Stamatios Georgoulis, Tinne Tuytelaars, and Luc Van Gool. 2018. Ex-
emplar guided unsupervised image-to-image translation with semantic consistency.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.11145 (2018).
Morteza Mardani, Guilin Liu, Aysegul Dundar, Shiqiu Liu, Andrew Tao, and Bryan
Catanzaro. 2020. Neural ffts for universal texture image synthesis. Advances in
Neural Information Processing Systems 33 (2020).
Oscar Michel, Roi Bar-On, Richard Liu, Sagie Benaim, and Rana Hanocka.
2021.
Text2Mesh: Text-Driven Neural Stylization for Meshes.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2112.03221 (2021).
Reiichiro Nakano. 2019. Neural painters: A learned differentiable constraint for gener-
ating brushstroke paintings. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.08410 (2019).
Taesung Park, Alexei A Efros, Richard Zhang, and Jun-Yan Zhu. 2020. Contrastive learn-
ing for unpaired image-to-image translation. In European Conference on Computer
Vision. Springer, 319–345.
Taesung Park, Ming-Yu Liu, Ting-Chun Wang, and Jun-Yan Zhu. 2019. Semantic image
synthesis with spatially-adaptive normalization. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 2337–2346.
Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini
Agarwal, Girish Sastry, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark, et al. 2021.
Learning transferable visual models from natural language supervision. In Interna-
tional Conference on Machine Learning. PMLR, 8748–8763.
Md Atiqur Rahman and Yang Wang. 2016. Optimizing intersection-over-union in
deep neural networks for image segmentation. In International symposium on visual
computing. Springer, 234–244.
Elad Richardson, Yuval Alaluf, Or Patashnik, Yotam Nitzan, Yaniv Azar, Stav Shapiro,
and Daniel Cohen-Or. 2021. Encoding in style: a stylegan encoder for image-to-
image translation. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition. 2287–2296.
Lincoln Ritter, Wilmot Li, Brian Curless, Maneesh Agrawala, and David Salesin. 2006.
Painting With Texture.. In Rendering Techniques. 371–376.
Chitwan Saharia, William Chan, Huiwen Chang, Chris A Lee, Jonathan Ho, Tim Sal-
imans, David J Fleet, and Mohammad Norouzi. 2021. Palette: Image-to-image
diffusion models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2111.05826 (2021).
Patsorn Sangkloy, Jingwan Lu, Chen Fang, Fisher Yu, and James Hays. 2017. Scribbler:
Controlling deep image synthesis with sketch and color. In Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 5400–5409.
Yujun Shen, Ceyuan Yang, Xiaoou Tang, and Bolei Zhou. 2020. Interfacegan: Inter-
preting the disentangled face representation learned by gans. IEEE transactions on
pattern analysis and machine intelligence (2020).
Alon Shoshan, Nadav Bhonker, Igor Kviatkovsky, and Gerard Medioni. 2021. GAN-
control: Explicitly controllable GANs. arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.02477 (2021).
Maria Shugrina, Amlan Kar, Sanja Fidler, and Karan Singh. 2020. Nonlinear color triads
for approximation, learning and direct manipulation of color distributions. ACM
Transactions on Graphics (TOG) 39, 4 (2020), 97–1.
Jaskirat Singh and Liang Zheng. 2021.
Combining Semantic Guidance and Deep
Reinforcement Learning For Generating Human Level Paintings. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 16387–16396.
Tuur Stuyck, Fang Da, Sunil Hadap, and Philip Dutré. 2017. Real-Time Oil Painting
on Mobile Hardware. In Computer Graphics Forum, Vol. 36. Wiley Online Library,
69–79.
Jianchao Tan, Jose Echevarria, and Yotam Gingold. 2018. Efficient palette-based decom-
position and recoloring of images via RGBXY-space geometry. ACM Transactions
on Graphics (TOG) 37, 6 (2018), 1–10.
Omer Tov, Yuval Alaluf, Yotam Nitzan, Or Patashnik, and Daniel Cohen-Or. 2021.
Designing an encoder for stylegan image manipulation. ACM Transactions on
Graphics (TOG) 40, 4 (2021), 1–14.
Ting-Chun Wang, Ming-Yu Liu, Jun-Yan Zhu, Andrew Tao, Jan Kautz, and Bryan
Catanzaro. 2018. High-resolution image synthesis and semantic manipulation with
conditional gans. In Proceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern
recognition. 8798–8807.
Rundong Wu, Zhili Chen, Zhaowen Wang, Jimei Yang, and Steve Marschner. 2018.
Brush stroke synthesis with a generative adversarial network driven by physically
based simulation. In Proceedings of the Joint Symposium on Computational Aesthetics
and Sketch-Based Interfaces and Modeling and Non-Photorealistic Animation and
Rendering. 1–10.
Xian Wu, Chen Wang, Hongbo Fu, Ariel Shamir, Song-Hai Zhang, and Shi-Min Hu. 2022.
DeepPortraitDrawing: Generating Human Body Images from Freehand Sketches.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.02070 (2022).
Wenqi Xian, Patsorn Sangkloy, Varun Agrawal, Amit Raj, Jingwan Lu, Chen Fang,
Fisher Yu, and James Hays. 2018. Texturegan: Controlling deep image synthesis
with texture patches. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition. 8456–8465.
Chufeng Xiao, Deng Yu, Xiaoguang Han, Youyi Zheng, and Hongbo Fu. 2021. Sketch-
HairSalon: Deep Sketch-based Hair Image Synthesis. , 16 pages.
Jianwei Yang, Anitha Kannan, Dhruv Batra, and Devi Parikh. 2017. Lr-gan: Layered
recursive generative adversarial networks for image generation. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1703.01560 (2017).
Ning Yu, Connelly Barnes, Eli Shechtman, Sohrab Amirghodsi, and Michal Lukáč. 2019a.
Texture Mixer: A Network for Controllable Synthesis and Interpolation of Texture.
In IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR).
Xiaoming Yu, Yuanqi Chen, Shan Liu, Thomas Li, and Ge Li. 2019b. Multi-mapping
image-to-image translation via learning disentanglement. Advances in Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems 32 (2019).
Kai Zhang, Nick Kolkin, Sai Bi, Fujun Luan, Zexiang Xu, Eli Shechtman, and Noah
Snavely. 2022. ARF: Artistic Radiance Fields.
Richard Zhang, Phillip Isola, Alexei A Efros, Eli Shechtman, and Oliver Wang. 2018.
The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Deep Features as a Perceptual Metric. In CVPR.
Yuxuan Zhang, Huan Ling, Jun Gao, Kangxue Yin, Jean-Francois Lafleche, Adela Bar-
riuso, Antonio Torralba, and Sanja Fidler. 2021. Datasetgan: Efficient labeled data
factory with minimal human effort. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 10145–10155.
Nanxuan Zhao, Quanlong Zheng, Jing Liao, Ying Cao, Hanspeter Pfister, and Ryn-
son WH Lau. 2021. Selective Region-based Photo Color Adjustment for Graphic
Designs. ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG) 40, 2 (2021), 1–16.
Ningyuan Zheng, Yifan Jiang, and Dingjiang Huang. 2018. Strokenet: A neural painting
environment. In International Conference on Learning Representations.
Jun-Yan Zhu, Taesung Park, Phillip Isola, and Alexei A Efros. 2017. Unpaired Image-
to-Image Translation using Cycle-Consistent Adversarial Networks. In Computer
Vision (ICCV), 2017 IEEE International Conference on.
Peihao Zhu, Rameen Abdal, John Femiani, and Peter Wonka. 2021. Barbershop: GAN-
based image compositing using segmentation masks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2106.01505
(2021).
Zhengxia Zou, Tianyang Shi, Shuang Qiu, Yi Yuan, and Zhenwei Shi. 2021. Stylized
neural painting. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition. 15689–15698.
ACM Trans. Graph., Vol. 41, No. 6, Article 269. Publication date: December 2022.


