===== PAGE 1 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction
YING JIANG1∗, JIAYIN LU1∗, YUNUO CHEN1∗, YUMENG HE1,2, KUI WU3, YIN YANG4, and CHENFANFU
JIANG1
Fig. 1.Painting Gallery.We visualize the reconstructed paintings produced by our method, along with one example of an intermediate painting stage. Our
method reconstructs the painting process by progressively generating realistic brushstrokes, resulting in visually coherent and complete paintings.
Painting embodies a unique form of visual storytelling, where the creation
process is as significant as the final artwork. Although recent advances
in generative models have enabled visually compelling painting synthesis,
most existing methods focus solely on final image generation or patch-
based process simulation, lacking explicit stroke structure and failing to
produce smooth, realistic shading. In this work, we present a differentiable
stroke reconstruction framework that unifies painting, stylized texturing,
and smudging to faithfully reproduce the human painting–smudging loop.
Given an input image, our framework first optimizes single- and dual-color
Bézier strokes through a parallel differentiable paint renderer, followed by
a style generation module that synthesizes geometry-conditioned textures
across diverse painting styles. We further introduce a differentiable smudge
operator to enable natural color blending and shading. Coupled with a coarse-
to-fine optimization strategy, our method jointly optimizes stroke geometry,
color, and texture under geometric and semantic guidance. Extensive exper-
iments on oil, watercolor, ink, and digital paintings demonstrate that our
approach produces realistic and expressive stroke reconstructions, smooth
tonal transitions, and richly stylized appearances, offering a unified model
for expressive digital painting creation.
* indicates equal contributions.
Affiliations: 1UCLA, 2USC, 3LIGHTSPEED, 4Utah
1 Introduction
As Picasso once said, “Painting is just another way of keeping a
diary. ” Painting serves as a powerful medium for expressing human
emotions and ideas in visual form. Most prior work on painting
generation focuses on the finished artwork [10, 32, 42], while the cre-
ative process itself remains concealed. Yet, observing how painters
construct their work is equally meaningful. It not only allows audi-
ences to appreciate and study the historical context and expressive
techniques of art but also serves as a rich resource for learning
how to paint for both humans and robots in reality [ 5, 35]. Since
mastering painting requires substantial time and effort, and much
instruction still depends on in-person teaching, generating painting
processes offers new and more accessible pathways for learning and
engaging with art.
Previous works on painting process generation have taken primar-
ily two directions: painting video generation [4, 38, 51] and painting
stroke synthesis [15, 21, 27, 34, 43, 53]. For painting video genera-
tion, the task is formulated as a video synthesis problem, where each
frame represents a stage of the painting process. [38] and [4] explore
diffusion models to predict time-lapse videos of artistic creation,
arXiv:2511.13191v1  [cs.CV]  17 Nov 2025
===== PAGE 2 =====
2•Ying Jiang, et al.
while [51] utilizes diffusion transformers to generate both past and
future drawing processes. Although these works produce visually
compelling videos thanks to powerful generative models, they do
not provide explicit stroke information. Moreover, the transitions
between frames are typically patch-based, making the generated
painting workflows difficult to reproduce in real-world painting or
existing digital painting software. In contrast, stroke-based painting
generation methods explicitly represent brush strokes with para-
metric primitives, such as Bézier curves, to model individual stroke
geometries and use differentiable renderers to synthesize vectorized
images. Recent work has explored stroke parameter searching [53],
reinforcement learning [15], and transformer-based models [21] to
generate brush stroke sequences. Nevertheless, neural painting ap-
proaches [21, 53] often deviate from a realistic painting appearance.
These methods render paint strokes defined by Bézier curves with
single or dual colors on the canvas, lacking proper color blending
between strokes. This limitation prevents them from producing com-
plex textures, smooth tonal transitions, and natural shading effects
characteristic of real paintings, resulting in hard stroke boundaries
(Fig. 2 (a)) and an overall unrealistic visual appearance. Furthermore,
when generating distinct painting styles such as oil, watercolor, or
ink effects, these methods typically require training separate style-
specific neural painters. This limitation restricts the generated out-
puts to a narrow set of predefined styles and hinders generalization
beyond the training distribution.
Inspired by the progressive human painting process, which in-
volves applying flat color fills followed by blending or smudging
to create natural shading effects [16], we propose a differentiable
stroke reconstruction framework that unifies stroke-based paint and
smudge rendering with stylized texture generation, reproducing the
paint-smudge loop to generate paintings with realistic shading and
expressive textured strokes. Our pipeline is organized into three
stages: (1)Paint Stroke Reconstruction, a parallel differentiable color-
filling module; (2)Stroke Texture Stylization, a stylized texture syn-
thesis module; and (3)Smudge Stroke Reconstruction, a differentiable
smudging operation for color blending. Unlike traditional paint-
ing software, where strokes are rasterized sequentially to match
dynamically created user input, we introduce a parallel differen-
tiable painting algorithm that renders single- or dual-color strokes
directly from open Bézier curves in one step. With a differentiable
paint renderer, we optimize Bézier-curve geometry parameters and
per-stroke colors under geometric and semantic guidance. After
extracting dual-color strokes and their geometric structures, we
employ a StyleGAN-based generator to optimize latent textures con-
ditioned on stroke geometry, producing diverse stylized appearances
(e.g., watercolor, oil, and ink). The textured strokes are then com-
posited onto the canvas and further refined through a differentiable
smudge renderer, which generates smudged strokes and smooth
color transitions to achieve natural shading. Emulating the iterative
human painting process, we adopt a coarse-to-fine optimization
strategy that progressively refines paint and smudge parameters by
looping through painting, styling, and smudging, while spatially
subdividing the canvas from coarse to fine patches. We evaluate
our method on analog oil, watercolor, and ink paintings, as well as
digital paintings, demonstrating visually compelling results with
accurate reconstruction of stylized painting and smudge strokes.
(a). Hard (b). Smooth (c). Textured painterly 
Fig. 2. From left to right: (a) hard shading effects, (b) smooth shading effects,
and (c) textured painterly shading effects.
(a). Pixel-based (b). Closed-region (c). Open-curve
Fig. 3. From left to right: (a) input pixel-based image, (b) vectorized paint-
ing with closed-region representation, and (c) vectorized painting with
open-curve representation. While the closed-region vectorization effectively
captures fine details, its zigzag boundaries composed of multiple Bézier
curves are less suitable for stroke-based painting and can only produce hard
shading effects. In contrast, the open-curve representation models each
stroke as a single cubic Bézier curve, blending colors through smudging.
This approach more closely resembles human-created painting strokes and
naturally produces smoother, more textured shading effects.
In summary, our main contributions are as follows:
• We propose a differentiable stroke reconstruction framework
that unifies paint rendering, stylized texture generation, and
smudge rendering, faithfully reproducing the paint–smudge
loop with realistic and expressive strokes.
• We introduce a parallel differentiable stamp-based paint
renderer and a differentiable smudge renderer that captures
both geometry and texture, enabling joint optimization of
stroke geometry, color, and texture under novel semantic
and gradient guidance.
• We present a unified representation for stylized painting
across diverse painting styles, and validate our approach
through extensive experiments on various categories (oil,
watercolor, ink, and digital paintings), demonstrating its
effectiveness and expressiveness.
2 Related Work
2.1 Vector Graphics
Vector graphics (VG) represents images parametrically as composi-
tions of geometric primitives. Methods for generating SVGs fall into
two broad families: data-driven and optimization-based. Data-driven
approaches emit SVGs directly using sequence-to-sequence models
[24, 31, 44], diffusion models [1], and transformers [3], but learning-
based methods are often limited to generating vector images within
the distribution of training data, struggling with out-of-domain data
[23].
===== PAGE 3 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•3
Optimization-based methods fit primitives by backpropagating
through differentiable rasterizers to refine primitive parameters. Dif-
fVG [20] first introduced a differentiable vector rasterizer for vector
graphics learning. DiffVG [20] first introduced a differentiable ras-
terizer for vector graphics learning and generation. Following this,
[7, 13, 25, 46] have further explored layer-aware optimization with
intersection-aware guidance [25], optimization in reduced subspaces
with layer decomposition [7], top-down strategies with redundant
stroke pruning [13], and semantic simplification methods [46] to
obtain semantically consistent SVGs. However, most optimization-
based approaches are time-consuming [7, 20, 25]. To improve effi-
ciency, Bézier Splatting [23] leverages Bézier curves in combination
with Gaussian splatting to achieve efficient vectorized image render-
ing [23]. Beyond image-to-VG tasks, differentiable vector rasterizers
have been coupled with text guidance to synthesize vector drawings
and sketches from prompts [ 8, 34, 43, 48, 49]. However, existing
vector image generation explores closed, flat-filled color regions
parameterized by Bézier curves [ 7, 13, 20, 25, 43, 48, 49], lacking
in creating smoothing shading effects. To achieve smooth-shaded
vector images, diffusion curves [28] and gradient meshes [39] model
gradient-based shading effects with topological control over the
image in a single step. Unlike these global curve networks or control-
mesh-based approaches, our goal is to explore open, stroke-based
SVG primitives that can naturally reconstruct painting and shading
effects accurately.
2.2 Painting Video Generation
With the advance of diffusion models, generation of high-quality im-
ages and videos has become possible [2, 14, 33]. Prior work explores
powerful generative models to synthesize the painting process as
frame-by-frame sequences, effectively creating time-lapse videos
that show how a painting emerges over time [4, 51]. Inverse Paint-
ing [4] formulates the process as autoregressive image generation,
leveraging image diffusion models with text and semantic guidance
to produce each frame step by step. ProcessPainter [38] integrates
image diffusion models with temporal attention to generate painting
videos all at once. Going beyond forward processes, PaintsAlter [51]
employs video diffusion models to achieve bidirectional painting
process generation. Although these data-driven methods [ 4, 51]
generate high-quality painting videos, they often lack temporal
consistency. In addition, the differences across frames typically ap-
pear as patchwise changes, lacking explicit stroke-level variations
observed in human painting.
2.3 Stroke-based Painting Generation
Recently, Nakano [27] proposed a neural painter with adversarial
training to generate brushstroke paintings. Similarly, Learn to Paint
[15] and Paint Transformer [ 21] explore reinforcement learning
(RL) and a transformer-based framework, respectively, to learn the
colors and positions of strokes. However, neural painting methods
[15, 21, 27, 53] tend to use only one or two colors per stroke, lacking
the ability to generate textured strokes. Thus, these methods often
resort to an excessive quantity of tiny strokes to represent color
in paintings. To produce stylized strokes, Stylized Neural Painting
[53] defined different stroke parameters and shapes for various
painting styles, such as watercolor and oil painting. For each style, it
was trained on different synthetic datasets and maintained separate
weights. To generate a unified brushstroke style, Neural Brushstroke
[36] leverages StyleGAN [18] to extract latent style codes from input
strokes, which can then be used in painting to create strokes with
similar styles. Inspired by this, our framework aims to generate
unified strokes that reconstruct both stroke geometry and stroke
textures from a painting. Most prior stroke generation approaches
[15, 21, 27, 53] focus only on color-filling strokes, lacking color
blending, whereas human painting typically follows a paint–smudge
loop in which colors are painted and then blended through blurring
or smudging to create complex shading effects [16, 37]. Furthermore,
neural renderers draw strokes all at once, lacking the stamp-based
brushstroke rendering [6] used in painting software. Our goal is
to generate unified textured painting and smudging stamp-based
brushstrokes that reproduce the human-like painting process and
reconstruct natural smooth shading effects.
3 Method
In this section, we discuss our reconstruction pipeline in depth.
Given an input painting, we progressively refine the canvas from
coarse to fine by partitioning it into1× 1,2× 2,... ,𝑛×𝑛 patches.
Within each sub-canvas, our pipeline proceeds through three phases
(see Fig. 4 for illustration): (1)Paint stroke geometry reconstruction
recovers the geometric shapes of painting strokes under color guid-
ance. (2)Paint stroke texture stylizationoptimizes a style latent code
conditioned on the reconstructed geometry to generate diverse
stroke textures. (3)Smudge stroke reconstructionoptimizes the shapes
of smudging strokes to reconstruct smooth shading effects. These
three phases are applied iteratively from coarse to fine canvas levels,
progressively refining the reconstructed painting and emulating the
human paint–smudge loop.
3.1 Stroke Representation
To support the three-phase pipeline described above, we adopt a
unified representation for both paint and smudge strokes. Each
stroke is parameterized as{x𝐵, r, c,𝛼, w}, wherex𝐵 ={ x𝑠, x𝑒, x𝑐} are
Bézier curve endpoints and control points,r ={𝑟 𝑠,𝑟𝑒} are endpoint
radius,c ={ c𝑠, c𝑒} are endpoint colors, 𝛼 is transparency, and
wis a style latent code controlling texture and appearance. We
decompose the parameters into geometry Θgeo ={ x𝐵, r}, color
Θcolor ={ c,𝛼} , and styleΘstyle ={ w} components. For paint strokes,
we separately optimize their appearance (including geometry and
color) Θapp
paint ={ x𝐵, r, c,𝛼} and style components Θstyle
paint ={ w}.
For smudge strokes, we optimize only the geometry parameters
Θsmudge ={x 𝐵,r}.
3.2 Differentiable Stroke Rendering
3.2.1 Stroke-based paint rendering.Given the paint stroke param-
eters Θapp
paint ={ x𝐵, c, r,𝛼} , our differentiable paint renderer 𝜙𝑝
produces the corresponding pixel-based stroke 𝝉𝑝 =𝜙 𝑝(Θapp
paint)
(Fig. 5). Following standard stamp-based painting algorithms [ 6],
a stroke is synthesized by placing a sequence of stamps along
the Bézier path using parameter-uniform sampling. The stamp
centers are computed by uniformly sampling the Bézier curve at
===== PAGE 4 =====
4•Ying Jiang, et al.
Paint 
Rendering StyleGAN Smudge 
Rendering
Input Image
Masks
(b). Paint Stroke Reconstruction (c). Stylized Texture Reconstruction  (d). Smudge Stroke Reconstruction
Supervision
(a). Guidance
Fig. 4.Pipeline Overview.(a) Given a painting image as input, we extract segmentation masks and use both the RGB image and the masks as supervision
for optimizing brush-stroke parameters. (b) We then perform parallel differentiable paint rendering to rasterize strokes, with the geometric parameters
optimized under appearance- and semantic-guided constraints. (c) Next, we employ a StyleGAN-based texture generator to synthesize stylized textured
strokes conditioned on the geometric structures, optimizing the texture parameters of the paint strokes. (d) Finally, we apply a differentiable smudge renderer
to simulate color blending and produce smooth shading effects, optimizing the smudge parameters.
Algorithm 1Stroke-Based Paint Rendering
Require: Stroke parameters Θpaint ={ x𝐵 =( x𝑠, x𝑐, x𝑒), r =
(𝑟𝑠,𝑟𝑒),c=(c 𝑠,c𝑒),𝛼}, number of stamps𝑁
Ensure:Rendered pixel-based stroke𝝉 𝑝
1:S←∅⊲Initialize stamp
2:for𝑘=0to𝑁do
3:𝑡 𝑘← 𝑘
𝑁
4:x 𝑘←(1−𝑡 𝑘)2x𝑠+2𝑡𝑘(1−𝑡 𝑘)x𝑐+𝑡 2
𝑘 x𝑒
5:𝑟 𝑘←(1−𝑡 𝑘)𝑟𝑠+𝑡𝑘𝑟𝑒
6:c 𝑘←(1−𝑡 𝑘)c𝑠+𝑡𝑘 c𝑒
7:𝑆 𝑘(x)=𝛼c 𝑘 if∥x−x 𝑘∥≤𝑟 𝑘, else0
8:S←S∪{𝑆 𝑘}
9:end for
10:for allpixelsxdo⊲SDF-based rendering
11:𝑘 ∗←arg min𝑘∥x−x 𝑘∥
12:𝑝(x)←𝛼·c 𝑘∗
13:end for
14:return𝝉 𝑝 ={𝑝(x)}
x𝑘 =( 1−𝑡𝑘)2x𝑠+ 2𝑡𝑘(1−𝑡𝑘)x𝑐+𝑡 2
𝑘 x𝑒, where𝑡𝑘 = 𝑘
𝑁(𝑘= 0,...,𝑁) ,
with radius interpolated as 𝑟𝑘 =( 1−𝑡𝑘)𝑟𝑠+𝑡𝑘𝑟𝑒 and color inter-
polated asc 𝑘 =( 1−𝑡𝑘)c𝑠+𝑡𝑘 c𝑒. Finally, we define a local stamp
centered atx𝑘, parameterized by its radius𝑟𝑘, colorc𝑘, and trans-
parency𝛼:
𝑆𝑘(x)=𝑆(x−x 𝑘 ;𝑟𝑘,c𝑘,𝛼)=
(
𝛼c𝑘,∥x−x 𝑘∥≤𝑟 𝑘,
0,otherwise.
(1)
For each image pixelx =(𝑥,𝑦) , its color is obtained by accumu-
lating the contributions of all stamps whose support coversx, i.e.,
those satisfying∥x− x𝑘∥≤𝑟 𝑘, combined through sequential alpha
compositing:
𝑝(x)=
𝑁∑︁
𝑘=0
h
𝑆𝑘(x)
Ö
𝑗<𝑘
 1−𝛼1[∥x−x 𝑗∥≤𝑟 𝑗]i
.(2)
Fig. 5.Differentiable Paint Renderer.Local stamps are uniformly sam-
pled along the Bézier curve and parameterized by radius, color, and trans-
parency. Unlike the vanilla stroke-based renderer (right), where interpolated
areas are sequentially blended using the colors of neighboring stamps, we
propose an distance-based model in which colors are determined by the
closest stamp centers (left), allowing efficient parallelization.
To avoid sequential accumulation, we also introduce a signed dis-
tance function (SDF) representation where we evaluate:
𝑑(x)=min
𝑘
 ∥x−x 𝑘∥−𝑟 𝑘
,(3)
which implicitly defines the stroke region by the zero-level set{x:
𝑑( x)≤ 0}. Pixel colors are then computed in parallel by assigning
each pixel to its nearest stamp center:
𝑝(x)=c 𝑘∗𝛼, 𝑘 ∗ =arg min
𝑘
∥x−x 𝑘∥,(4)
where𝑝( x) computes the pixel value of the rendered paint stroke
𝝉𝑝 at locationx. This approach removes the need for sequential
blending and allows efficient stroke construction on GPUs.
3.2.2 Stroke-based smudge rendering.Given the smudge stroke pa-
rameters Θsmudge ={ x𝐵, r} and an input canvas𝐼∈[ 0, 1]3×𝐻×𝑊 , our
differentiable smudge renderer𝜙𝑠 produces the corresponding pixel-
based smudge stroke: 𝝉𝑠 =𝜙𝑠(Θsmudge,𝐼). The smudge trajectory is
obtained by uniformly sampling the Bézier curve as{x0,..., x𝑁},
where each locationx𝑘 is associated with an interpolated radius𝑟𝑘.
===== PAGE 5 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•5
Algorithm 2Stroke-Based Smudge Rendering
Require: Smudge parameters Θsmudge ={ x𝐵 =( x𝑠, x𝑐, x𝑒), r =
(𝑟𝑠,𝑟𝑒)}, canvas𝐼∈[0,1] 3×𝐻×𝑊 , number of stamps𝑁
Ensure:Smudged stroke𝝉 𝑠
1:Sample trajectory{x 0,...,x 𝑁}along Bézier curve
2:for𝑘=0to𝑁do⊲Initialize stamp
3:𝑡 𝑘← 𝑘
𝑁
4:x 𝑘←(1−𝑡 𝑘)2x𝑠+2𝑡𝑘(1−𝑡 𝑘)x𝑐+𝑡 2
𝑘 x𝑒
5:𝑟 𝑘←(1−𝑡 𝑘)𝑟𝑠+𝑡𝑘𝑟𝑒
6:𝑆 𝑘(x)←{𝐼(x)|∥x−x 𝑘∥≤𝑟 𝑘}
7:end for
8:𝐶 0
𝑘(x),𝐵𝑘(x)←𝑆 𝑘(x)for𝑘=0,...,𝑁
9:for𝑘=0to𝑁do⊲Brush update
10:𝑡 𝑘←ℓ𝑘/𝐿⊲ratio of arc length to total length
11:K 𝑘,𝑖 =
𝑡𝑎−1
𝑖 (1−𝑡 𝑖)𝑏−1
Í𝑘
𝑚=0𝑡𝑎−1𝑚 (1−𝑡𝑚)𝑏−1 for𝑖=0,...,𝑘
12:𝐵 𝑘(x)← Í𝑘
𝑖=0K𝑘,𝑖·𝐵𝑖(x)
13:end for
14:for𝑘=1to𝑁do⊲Canvas update
15:𝐶 𝑘
𝑘(x)←𝛼 𝑐𝐵𝑘−1(x)+(1−𝛼 𝑐)𝐶𝑘−1
𝑘 (x)
16:𝐵 𝑘
𝑘(x)←𝛼 𝑐𝐵0
𝑘(x)+(1−𝛼 𝑠)𝐶𝑘
𝑘(x)
17:end for
18:return𝝉 𝑠 ={𝐶 𝑁
𝑁(x)}
(a). Traditional brush stamp initialization (b). Traditional smudge rendering
(d). Differentiable smudge rendering(c). Differentiable one-shot initialization
Fig. 6.Differentiable smudge renderer.Blue, cyan, and red circles repre-
sent the brush states and the initial and updated canvas states. In traditional
smudge rendering, each brush stamp is initialized sequentially (a) and al-
ternately updates the canvas and brush states in a recursive manner (b). In
contrast, our proposed differentiable smudge renderer introduces a novel
one-shot initialization that updates all brush states simultaneously (c) and
updates brush stamps directly from the canvas, resulting in a more efficient
computation graph (d).
For eachx𝑘, we obtain a local stamp𝑆𝑘(x) by extracting a patch of
size𝑟𝑘 centered atx𝑘 from the input canvas𝐼.
Traditional smudging evolves the canvas state𝐶 and the brush
state𝐵 in a recursive Markovian manner. Let𝐵𝑘 denote the internal
brush state of stamp𝑘, and𝐶𝑛
𝑘 denote the updated canvas state of
stamp𝑘 at temporal step 𝑛. The canvas and brush states evolve
following thealternating updatescheme (Fig. 6 (b)):
𝐶𝑘
𝑘(x)=𝛼 𝑐𝐵𝑘−1(x)+(1−𝛼 𝑐)𝐶𝑘−1
𝑘 (x),(5)
𝐵𝑘(x)=𝛼 𝑠𝐵𝑘−1(x)+(1−𝛼 𝑠)𝐶𝑘
𝑘(x),(6)
with initialization𝐵0(x)=𝐶 0
0(x) (Fig. 6 (a)), where 𝛼𝑐∈[ 0, 1] is
the canvas blending coefficient controlling how much of the pre-
vious brush state remains on the canvas, and 𝛼𝑠 ∈ [0, 1] is the
self-retention coefficient controlling how much pigment the brush
retains from its own past state during the smudging process. How-
ever, since each step extracts and splits stamps directly from the
canvas, this formulation is difficult to make differentiable. Moreover,
each current stamp depends only on the previous stamp and the
current canvas state, resulting in a shallow computation graph with
only one-step temporal dependencies.
To overcome these limitations, we note that the recurrence can
be simplified as 𝐵𝑘 =A𝐵 𝑘−1+B𝑆 𝑘, whereA=𝛼 𝑠+( 1−𝛼𝑠)𝛼𝑐,
B=(1−𝛼 𝑠)(1−𝛼 𝑐), and unrolled to
𝐵𝑘 =A 𝑘𝐶0
0+
𝑘∑︁
𝑖=1
A𝑘−𝑖B𝐶𝑖−1
𝑖 ,
which shows that past samples{𝐶𝑖} contribute with exponentially
decaying weights. Inspired by this, we propose a one-shot initializa-
tion with a length-aware distribution to generate𝐵𝑘 given initial
canvas stamps (Fig. 6 (c)). Reparameterizing the trajectory by cu-
mulative arc lengthℓ𝑖 with total length𝐿 and normalized positions
𝑡𝑖 =ℓ𝑖/𝐿, we obtain
𝐵𝑘 =
𝑘∑︁
𝑖=0
K𝑘,𝑖𝐶0
𝑖,K 𝑘,𝑖 = 𝑡𝑎−1
𝑖 (1−𝑡 𝑖)𝑏−1
Í𝑘
𝑚=0𝑡𝑎−1𝑚 (1−𝑡 𝑚)𝑏−1,
where𝑎,𝑏> 0. A special case 𝑎=𝑏= 1recovers the uniform
kernelK𝑘,𝑖 = 1/(𝑘+ 1), corresponding to the arithmetic mean of
all past samples. In addition, the kernel weightsK𝑘,𝑖 capture arc-
length geometry and remain invariant to resampling density. This
property enables the precomputation of the matrixK and the one-
shot initialization of all brush states{𝐵𝑘}. After initializing brush
stamps, we use it to update canvas states and adjust brush stamps
from only canvas states recursively (Fig. 6 (d)):
𝐶𝑘
𝑘(x)=𝛼 𝑐𝐵𝑘−1(x)+(1−𝛼 𝑐)𝐶𝑘−1
𝑘 (x),(7)
𝐵𝑘
𝑘(x)=𝛼 𝑠𝐵0
𝑘(x)+(1−𝛼 𝑠)𝐶𝑘
𝑘(x).(8)
This ordered blending ensures pigment deposition aligns with the
temporal smudging process.
3.3 Stroke Reconstruction
3.3.1 Phase I: Paint stroke appearance reconstruction.At this stage,
we optimize only the appearance parameters of each paint stroke,
Θapp
paint, while keeping the style latentwfixed for texture generation
in a later stage. To guide the optimization, we employ a combination
of complementary objectives.
===== PAGE 6 =====
6•Ying Jiang, et al.
Appearance Alignment.We employ a straightforward pixel loss,
Lpixel =∥𝐼 𝑟−𝐼𝑡∥1, to minimize the discrepancy between the rendered
image𝐼𝑟 and the ground truth𝐼𝑡 in raw color space, encouraging
faithful reconstruction in RGB space. In addition, we incorporate
a perceptual loss [ 36], defined as Lperc = Í
ℓ∥𝐹ℓ(𝐼𝑟)−𝐹 ℓ(𝐼𝑡)∥ 1,
where𝐹ℓ(·) denotes the feature map extracted from theℓ-th layer
of a pretrained VGG network [ 17]. This loss captures both low-
level cues (e.g., edges and colors) and high-level semantic patterns,
providing perceptual guidance beyond raw pixel differences.
Structural Guidance.To provide further structural guidance for
the strokes, we utilize the gradient information of the image and
propose the following loss: a gradient-based alignment lossLgrad =
1
𝐿
Í
ℓ(𝛼L (ℓ)
mag+𝛽L (ℓ)
dir), where𝐿 is the total arc length,Lmag and
Ldir measure the difference in gradient magnitudes and orientations
between𝐼𝑟 and𝐼𝑡 , respectively. This loss encourages the strokes to
align with local geometry such as edges and contours. Addition-
ally, to ensure each stroke aligns with the intended object region
and to prevent strokes from crossing multiple objects and causing
undesired blending, we introduce a layer-based segmentation loss,
Lseg = Í
𝑖≠𝑖∗|𝐴𝑠∩𝑀𝑖|, where𝐴𝑠 is the predicted stroke mask and
𝑀𝑖 are the semantically segmented regions, extracted by Segment
Anything (SAM) [19]. The index𝑖∗ =arg max𝑖|𝐴𝑠∩𝑀𝑖| corresponds
to the intended object region.
Optimization Regularization.To avoid vanishing gradients when
strokes are far from their targets, we adopt an entropy-regularized
optimal transport loss [53]:
LOT =
*
𝐶,arg min
𝑃∈U
⟨𝐶,𝑃⟩− 1
𝜆
 
−
𝑛∑︁
𝑖,𝑗=1
𝑃𝑖,𝑗 log𝑃𝑖,𝑗
!+
,
which matches mass distributions between𝐼𝑟 and𝐼𝑡 and stabilizes
optimization. Finally, an area regulation loss:
Larea = 1
𝑀
𝑀∑︁
𝑠=1
exp(− area(𝐴𝑠)
𝜂 )
penalizes strokes with vanishing areas, ensuring that each stroke
maintains a minimal effective footprint.
The overall objective is a weighted combination of all these terms:
Lapp =𝜆 pixelLpixel+𝜆 percLperc+
𝜆gradLgrad+𝜆 segLseg+𝜆 OTLOT+𝜆 areaLarea,(9)
where𝜆∗ are scalar weights balancing the contributions of each loss.
3.3.2 Phase II: Stylized Texture Reconstruction.After obtaining the
optimized appearance parameters Θapp
paint, we keep them fixed and
optimize the style latent codew. Optimizingwallows us to syn-
thesize diverse brushstroke textures (e.g., oil, watercolor, ink, and
digital painting styles). We adopt a conditional StyleGAN genera-
tor [36], denoted as𝐺, to produce a stylized textured paint stroke
𝝉𝑠𝑡 =𝐺(Θ app
paint, w), wherewcontrols texture and appearance vari-
ations. During optimization, onlywis updated, ensuring that the
geometry remains unchanged.
To guide stylization, we apply selective reconstruction losses
from Section 3.3.1, specifically, the appearance alignment losses
in RGB and latent spaces, as well as the gradient loss for localized
structural preservation. These losses enforce color fidelity, structural
similarity, and consistent shading, while the rest of the geometric
and regularization terms are excluded, as the stroke shape is fixed.
The overall objective for the stylization stage is the following:
Lstyle =𝜆 pixelLpixel+𝜆 percLperc+𝜆 gradLgrad.
3.3.3 Phase III: Smudge stroke reconstruction.At this stage, we op-
timize the trajectories of smudge strokes. Each smudge stroke is
parameterized by Θsmudge ={ x𝐵, r}. We use the same reconstruc-
tion lossLapp as described in Section 3.3.1, since our optimization
objectives remain the same. The primary difference lies in the dif-
ferentiable renderer employed during each stage. Additionally, we
assign greater weights to the gradient magnitude lossLmag to pro-
vide stronger shading guidance, as well as the area regularization
lossL area to prevent degenerate stroke configurations.
3.4 Joint Optimization
Inspired by the iterative human paint–smudge process, we adopt a
coarse-to-fine optimization strategy. The canvas is hierarchically
partitioned, starting from a coarse1× 1grid and progressively sub-
dividing into finer grids:2× 2,··· , up to𝑛×𝑛 sub-canvases. At each
level, we first reconstruct painting strokes with both appearance
and stylization, followed by smudge stroke optimization to refine
shading and blending. The output from each level initializes the
next, enabling gradual refinement of details while preserving the
global structure. At the final𝑛×𝑛 level, however, we perform only
paint-stroke reconstruction, omitting smudge strokes to maintain
edge sharpness and avoid over-smoothing.
4 Experiments
4.1 Implementation Details
We implement our algorithm in PyTorch [29]. For paint stroke ap-
pearance reconstruction and smudge stroke reconstruction, we use
RMSprop with a learning rate of0.003. For stylized textured stroke
reconstruction, we employ the Adam optimizer with a learning rate
that linearly warms up from 0 to 0.01 over the first 5% of iterations,
remains constant for the next 70%, and then follows a cosine decay
schedule to 0 over the final 25%. The weights of each loss term are set
as follows:𝜆pixel = 1.0,𝜆seg = 0.1,𝜆area = 0.02,𝜆grad = 0.1,𝜆OT = 0.2,
and𝜆perc = 0.1. For stroke texture rendering, we use a pretrained
StyleGAN generator [36] trained on128× 128patches. Following
the initialization strategy of Stylized Neural Painting [53], we con-
struct an error map by comparing the target image with the current
canvas prediction. Specifically, we compute the L1 distance per
pixel, summed across the RGB channels, to guide stroke placement
toward regions with higher reconstruction error. All experiments
are conducted on a single NVIDIA H100 GPU.
4.2 Stroke Rendering Results
Paint Stroke Rendering.We evaluate our proposed parallel dif-
ferentiable paint stroke renderer with sampling densities of 10, 20,
and 100 stamps on a1024 × 1024canvas using a stroke radius of
100 pixels, and compare its performance against the traditional se-
quential stroke-based rendering method. As shown in Fig. 7, our
===== PAGE 7 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•7
(a). Sequential paint rendering (b). Parallel paint rendering (c). Difference
Fig. 7.Sequential vs. parallel differentiable paint rendering.With
10, 20, and 100 strokes (from top to bottom), we compare (a) sequential
rendering and (b) our proposed parallel rendering. The results show that the
parallel rendering achieves accuracy comparable to the sequential approach.
(c) The difference visualization highlights regions of discrepancy, where
brighter blue indicates larger differences.
(a). Traditional smudge rendering 
 (c). Difference(b). Differentiable smudge rendering 
Fig. 8.Traditional vs. differentiable smudge rendering.With 10, 20,
and 100 strokes (from left to right), the black dots indicate smudge tra-
jectories, and the input is a single red circle. Comparing (a) traditional
smudge rendering with (b) our differentiable smudge rendering using one-
shot initialization, we observe that the proposed parallel rendering achieves
accuracy comparable to the traditional method. In (c), the difference visual-
ization shows that brighter blue regions correspond to larger differences.
method maintains accurate rendering results across different sam-
pling densities. To quantitatively assess efficiency and accuracy, we
benchmark the proposed parallel stroke renderer against the sequen-
tial Bézier stroke renderer under identical settings on an NVIDIA
H100 GPU. For each test stroke, we record the forward-pass time
averaged over five runs, with CUDA synchronization before and
after each iteration to ensure that only GPU computation time is
measured, excluding any I/O or visualization overhead. We report
both the average rendering time and theL1 distance per pixel be-
tween the two outputs. Our parallel implementation achieves up to
a 7× speedup on 100-stamp strokes while maintaining comparable
rendering fidelity (see Table 1).
Table 1. Comparison between sequential and parallel paint rendering.
# Stamp Seq. Time(ms) Par. Time(ms) Acc. Ratio↑ L 1 Dist.↓
10 2.335 0.912 2.56×0.003171
20 3.980 1.033 3.85×0.002896
100 17.532 2.424 7.23×0.002177
Smudge Stroke Rendering.We further evaluate the proposed differ-
entiable smudge stroke renderer using sampling densities of 10, 20,
and 100 stamps on a1024× 1024canvas with a stroke radius of 100
pixels, and compare its performance against a vanilla stroke-based
smudge rendering baseline. As the number of samples per stroke
increases, the shading becomes progressively smoother. As shown
Input
 Generated Background Generated Foreground
Fig. 9.Layered Painting Generation.Our method enables high-quality
layer-aware painting generation from a single image.
in Fig. 8, our proposed differentiable smudge renderer with one-shot
initialization achieves accurate and stable smudge rendering results.
4.3 Full Reconstruction Results
Fig. 1 showcases reconstructed paintings generated with 1024 strokes
across four representative styles, including watercolor, oil, digital,
and ink, demonstrating that our method effectively reproduces vivid
colors, smooth brush transitions, and faithful stylistic details. We
refer readers to the supplementary document for extensive painting
reconstruction results.
4.4 Applications
Layer-A ware Painting Generation.Layer decomposition has been
widely used in image editing [40, 50] and vectorization tasks [25]. In
our brushstroke reconstruction framework, we further incorporate
layer decomposition into the painting generation pipeline, enabling
alayer-aware generative painting processthat produces semantically
structured results and facilitates subsequent layer-based editing.
To generate decomposed painting layers, we first employ seman-
tic segmentation model [22, 30] to separate foreground objects from
the background. Since transparent and semi-transparent regions of-
ten contain mixed visual content, we further use a vision–language
model [41] to inpaint and refine the background layer. Subsequently,
stroke reconstruction is performed within each segmented region,
resulting in a hierarchical painting generation process that preserves
both semantic separation and artistic coherence. As shown in Fig. 9,
the proposed approach produces realistic and editable paintings
with consistent textures across layers.
Style Transfer.Our unified geometry–texture stroke representa-
tion can be naturally decoupled to enable style transfer. To achieve
this, we first perform paint and smudge stroke reconstruction across
all grids, rather than alternating between them, to extract their geo-
metric structures from the input image. During the style painting
phase, we modify the perceptual loss to be computed with respect
to a style reference image, while keeping all other loss terms defined
by the input image. This design allows the system to preserve the
structural layout and semantics of the input painting while adapting
===== PAGE 8 =====
8•Ying Jiang, et al.
Fig. 10.Style Transfer.Using an input image and a style guidance im-
age (bottom left), the proposed method achieves visually consistent and
high-fidelity style transfer, preserving both content structure and artistic
characteristics.
its color distribution, brush texture, and material characteristics
to match the target artistic style. As shown in Fig. 10, our method
effectively transfers the desired artistic style while maintaining
geometric structure.
5 Evaluation & Comparison
5.1 Datasets and Baselines
Datasets.We comprehensively evaluate our method across di-
verse painting domains, including watercolor, oil, ink, and digital
paintings. For analog watercolor, oil, and ink paintings, we use the
publicly available WikiArt dataset [26], from which we extract 20
paintings per category. For digital paintings, we select 20 digitally
recreated artworks from an online painting website 1, serving as
representative examples of modern digital art styles. In total, we
evaluate our method on 80 paintings to assess its effectiveness and
expressiveness across a wide range of artistic styles.
Baselines.We compare our method with three baselines that
model the painting process using open strokes as primitives, sim-
ilar to our framework: Stylized Neural Painting [53], Paint Trans-
former [21], and Learning to Paint [15]. Additionally, we compare
with O&R [13], which uses closed regions as primitives to synthesize
painterly renderings. For all baselines, we adopt a4× 4canvas parti-
tion (when applicable) assess reconstruction fidelity across varying
stroke densities.
5.2 Quantitative Comparison
To quantitatively assess reconstruction quality, we compare our
generated results with the baselines on the batch of 80 paintings,
using configurations of 128, 256, and 512 strokes or regions, re-
sulting in a total of 240 paintings for each method. We employ
multiple complementary metrics, including Peak Signal-to-Noise
Ratio (PSNR) [11], Structural Similarity Index (SSIM) [45], Learned
Perceptual Image Patch Similarity (LPIPS) [52], and ResNet-based
feature distance (FD) [12]. PSNR and SSIM evaluate pixel-level fi-
delity and structural consistency between the reconstructed and
reference paintings, reflecting low-level reconstruction accuracy.
LPIPS measures perceptual similarity in a latent space, providing
a more reliable indicator of texture coherence and structural real-
ism. FD assesses the distributional difference between generated
and reference images in the feature space of an Inception network,
1https://www.pinterest.com/
serving as a high-level perceptual metric for overall realism and
style consistency.
The quantitative evaluation results (Table 2) demonstrate that
our method consistently outperforms all baselines across differ-
ent metrics. Notably, under sparse stroke settings (128 strokes),
our approach achieves a significant improvement over the others,
indicating that the proposed framework can reconstruct images
effectively even with limited strokes, thanks to its more expressive
stroke representation. While O&R achieves the second-best perfor-
mance at 128 and 256 strokes, its improvement diminishes at 512
strokes. Although at higher stroke counts the PSNR of our method
is comparable to that of Learning to Paint, our LPIPS and FD scores
remain substantially better, suggesting that while those methods
may recover coarse color alignment, they struggle to produce per-
ceptually coherent strokes. Overall, our method achieves superior
reconstruction fidelity and perceptual realism across varying stroke
densities. Detailed per-category metric analyses are provided in the
supplementary document.
5.3 Qualitative Comparison
We present qualitative comparisons with baseline methods in Fig. 11
and Fig. 12. In Fig. 11 we showcase the paintings generated using
1024-stroke reconstructions arranged in a5× 5grid across diverse
subjects and painting styles. Our method produces reconstructions
that are both faithful to the target content and rich in painterly
texture. Additionally, we visualize the reconstruction results across
different sparse stroke settings (128, 256, 512 strokes) in Fig. 12. We
observe that with sufficient stroke budgets (Fig. 11), Learning to
Paint [15] often produces coarse, grid-like patterns and oversimpli-
fied regions, especially in high-frequency areas such as floral petals
and grape clusters. PaintTransformer [21], while exploring prede-
fined brush shapes, tends to generate boundary leaks and patchy
artifacts and remains largely constrained to oil-like appearances
due to its reliance on a single brush type. Stylized Neural Paint-
ing [53] achieves visually appealing global tones but frequently
loses local detail. O&R [13] accurately reproduces global color dis-
tributions; however, its closed-region primitives make it difficult
to reproduce in real digital painting software, as irregular enclosed
shapes are challenging to replicate with standard brush operations.
Under sparse stroke settings (Fig. 12), both our method and O&R
capture the overall structure effectively with only 128 strokes, while
LearningToPaint, Stylized Neural Painting, and PaintTransformer
struggle to preserve contours and object boundaries. This demon-
strates that our approach can better capture geometric and structural
information even under limited stroke numbers. Moreover, almost
all baseline methods lack color blending, resulting in hard shading
effects. In contrast, our framework reconstructs natural shading and
realistic tonal variations. Across all subjects and styles, our method
achieves a robust balance between global structure and fine detail,
producing results that are visually closer to the targets and more
naturally painterly.
5.4 Ablation Study
We conduct ablation studies on key components of our framework,
using the same input paintings as in Section 5.1. These experiments
===== PAGE 9 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•9
Input Ours Learn to Paint Paint Transformer Stylized Neural Painting O&R
Fig. 11.Qualitative Comparison.We compare our results with Stylized Neural Painting [ 53], Paint Transformer [21], Learning to Paint [15], and O&R [13].
Our method produces more coherent shading and faithful texture details while preserving an aesthetically pleasing painterly style.
evaluate the contribution of each proposed component to the final painting reconstruction quality, as well as the effect of varying
stroke numbers on the overall reconstruction performance.
===== PAGE 10 =====
10•Ying Jiang, et al.
Ours Stylized Neural PaintingPaint Transformer Learn to Paint
Input
128 256 512512256128
Input
O&R
Fig. 12.Qualitative comparison on 128, 256 and 512 strokes.Compared to the baseline methods, our approach more effectively captures geometric
contours and produces natural shading effects, even with sparse stroke numbers.
Reconstruction Framework Design.We first evaluate the effective-
ness of our three-phase framework design, which progressively
refines painting reconstruction through paint stroke appearance,
texture stylization, and smudge stroke optimization. As shown in
Table 3, advancing from Phase I to Phase III consistently improves
reconstruction quality. Phase I, which focuses solely on paint stroke
appearance reconstruction with dual-color strokes, captures the
overall structure but lacks stylized texture and smooth shading
effects. Incorporating Phase II for texture stylization (Phase I–II)
significantly enhances color fidelity and artistic expressiveness by
generating diverse stroke textures that better match various paint-
ing styles. Extending to Phase III with smudge stroke reconstruc-
tion (Phase I–II–III) further improves shading continuity and tonal
smoothness, producing more natural and perceptually coherent ren-
derings. As illustrated in Fig. 13, the cat’s face exhibits softer and
===== PAGE 11 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•11
Table 2.Quantitative Comparison.We evaluate overall average PSNR, SSIM, LPIPS, and FD across all painting styles. Higher PSNR/SSIM and lower
LPIPS/FD indicate better reconstruction fidelity.
Package 128 Brushes 256 Brushes 512 Brushes
PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓ PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓ PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓
Optimize&Reduce 19.108 0.5855 0.5637 13.91 20.652 0.6032 0.5174 13.03 22.429 0.6243 0.4700 11.53
Paint Transformer 16.506 0.5324 0.6775 13.73 17.211 0.5380 0.6285 12.78 18.584 0.5521 0.5560 11.78
Learning to Paint 19.181 0.5544 0.6309 16.84 21.521 0.5847 0.5700 14.82 23.155 0.6145 0.5231 11.27
Stylized-Neural-Painting 20.288 0.5721 0.5654 16.45 21.154 0.5896 0.5272 15.53 21.430 0.6029 0.5006 13.70
Ours 21.463 0.5993 0.5064 9.75 22.444 0.6168 0.4711 8.18 23.241 0.6335 0.4362 6.64
Input Phase I-II-II w/o  reg. Phase I-II-II w/o  struct.
Phase I-II-III Phase I-II Phase I
Fig. 13.Ablation Study.We present results from different training stages:
Phase I only, Phases I–II, and Phases I–II–III (full pipeline), as well as results
obtained without regularization guidance and without structural guidance.
We observe that the reconstruction quality consistently improves across
all training phases, producing more accurate and coherent painting results,
while both regularization and structural guidance play a crucial role in
ensuring reconstruction fidelity.
Table 3.Quantitative Ablation Study.We evaluate the results on 512
brushstrokes across different stages and components of our method using
the same metric as above.
Method PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓
Phase I 22.019 0.6695 0.4731 11.94
Phase I-II 23.699 0.6880 0.4324 5.57
Phase I-II-III w/o Structure Guidance 23.426 0.6853 0.4405 5.90
Phase I-II-III w/o Regularization 22.750 0.6765 0.4629 6.64
Phase I-II-III (Ours) 23.898 0.6909 0.4248 5.46
more natural shading transitions, instead of the harsh, segmented
appearance caused by discrete strokes.
Structural Guidance.Two structure-guided losses, the gradient-
based alignment lossLgrad and the layer-based segmentation loss
Lseg, are adopted to ensure that reconstructed strokes accurately
follow the intrinsic geometry of the painting. The segmentation loss
Lseg constrains strokes to stay within object boundaries, thereby
avoiding unwanted strokes across adjacent objects. TheLgrad, com-
posed of orientation and magnitude terms, enforces the stroke flow
to align with local edges and contours. As illustrated in Fig. 13, the
absence ofLgrad andLseg leads to irregular boundaries near the
cat’s right ear and disordered strokes on the forehead, introducing
structural ambiguity and visual inconsistency. Together, these two
losses contribute to geometrically aligned, semantically consistent,
and perceptually coherent stroke reconstructions.
Regularization.To avoid vanishing gradients when strokes are
far from their target regions and to prevent them from collapsing
into excessively small or vanishing areas, we introduce the optimal
transport lossLOT and the area regularization lossLarea. As shown
in Fig. 13, removingLOT andLarea leads to fragmented or missing
strokes around the cat’s nose and hat, as well as noticeable color
mismatches in the mouse region, resulting in sparse, unstable, and
perceptually inconsistent reconstructions.
Stroke Number.We assess the influence of stroke count on re-
construction quality. As illustrated in Fig. 14, increasing the stroke
count (128, 256, 512, and 1024) across four representative styles
including watercolor, oil, digital, and ink progressively improves
the reconstruction fidelity, resulting in finer structural details and
richer tonal variations. Moreover, even with a low stroke count (128
or 256), our method effectively preserves the global structure and
maintains perceptually consistent shading, demonstrating strong ro-
bustness and efficient stroke utilization in capturing complex visual
content.
5.5 User Study
To evaluate the perceptual quality and human preference of gener-
ated results, we conduct a user study involving fourteen participants.
The study follows a perceptual evaluation protocol comparing our
generative results against several state-of-the-art painting genera-
tion methods using a two-alternative forced choice (2AFC) design
[9, 47].
Participants and Procedure.A total of 14 participants (including
11novice users and3professional artists) are recruited for the study.
During the experiment, participants are presented with pairs of
generative painting results—one produced by our method and the
baseline methods.The order of presentation is randomized to min-
imize bias. Following the 2AFC protocol, participants were asked
to choose their preferred reconstructed paintings in each pair ac-
cording to five metrics: (a) Color Alignment (CA) assesses color
===== PAGE 12 =====
12•Ying Jiang, et al.
1024 128256512Input
Fig. 14.Stroke Number AblationFrom left to right: the input image followed by reconstructed results using 1024, 512, 256, and 128 strokes, respectively. The
results demonstrate that the proposed method accurately reconstructs paintings across varying stroke counts and diverse painting styles.
consistency in hue, tone, and saturation; (b) Texture and Shading
(TS) measures the realism of surface texture and light–shadow tran-
sitions; (c) Painting Style (PS) evaluates the coherence of strokes,
palette, and abstraction with the intended style; (d) Shape Fidelity
(SF) reflects the structural accuracy of objects and brushstrokes; and
(e) Overall Quality (OQ) represents the overall visual realism and
aesthetic appeal.
Table 4.User Study.We evaluate 2AFC user preferences against the base-
lines across five evaluation metrics: Color Alignment (CA), Painting Style
(PS), Texture and Shading (TS), Shape Fidelity (SF), and Overall Quality
(OQ). A score above 50% indicates that participants prefer our results over
the respective baseline.
Method CA↑TS↑PS↑SC↑OQ↑
Stylized Neural Painting 75% 78% 78% 78% 77%
Paint Transformer 82% 85% 81% 85% 84%
Learning to Paint 78% 77% 76% 78% 77%
O&R 66% 73% 72% 76% 70%
In Table 4, we report the itemized user preferences for each base-
line (whether users prefer our results over the baseline; a score
above 50% indicates an overall more preferred result). Our method
is consistently preferred across all evaluation criteria and baseline
methods. Compared with the open-curve–based painting baselines
(Stylized Neural Painting, Paint Transformer, and Learning to Paint),
which tend to produce visually similar painterly textures and styles,
and O&R (a closed-region–based vector graphics method) offers
stronger color alignment. However, our method achieves superior
performance across all perceptual dimensions, excelling not only in
color alignment but also in producing more realistic textures and
expressive styles. Participants particularly emphasized the natural
color harmony, smooth shading effects, and diverse painting styles,
ranging from oil to ink, in our generated results, highlighting the
improved perceptual realism and artistic expressiveness achieved
by the proposed framework.
6 Conclusions
We propose a differentiable stroke reconstruction framework that
novelly unifies stroke-based paint and smudge rendering with styled
texture generation. Our method reproduces the iterative paint-
ing–smudging loop, yielding realistic painterly effects with smooth
shading and expressive strokes. The framework generates stroke-
based painting processes that emulate human-like painting and
smudging, capturing the dynamic evolution of artwork while main-
taining both structural fidelity and aesthetic expressiveness. We
introduce a unified stroke representation that jointly models paint
and smudge strokes, enabling consistent simulation of stroke depo-
sition and color blending. A stylized texture reconstruction further
enriches the results by producing diverse and visually coherent
textures across different painting styles. Versatile experiments show
our method generates realistic and expressive painting processes.
Limitation and Future Work.Our approach has several limitations
that suggest directions for future work. First, the current patch-
based optimization strategy for painting and smudging, while effec-
tive, remains somewhat rigid. The order of painting and smudging
===== PAGE 13 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•13
operations within each grid patch is predefined, limiting flexibil-
ity. Enabling dynamic alternation between painting and smudging
strokes could better emulate the adaptive, iterative nature of human
painting workflows.
Another limitation lies in the stroke representation. Currently,
stroke shapes are restricted to open Bézier curve parameterizations,
which may not fully capture the irregular and diffusive boundaries
often observed in watercolor or ink paintings. Incorporating more
expressive stroke models, such as displacement-map–based defor-
mations or parameterized boundary perturbations, could enable the
reproduction of complex zigzag and diffusion patterns characteristic
of fluid-based media.
References
[1] Ellie Arar, Yarden Frenkel, Daniel Cohen-Or, Ariel Shamir, and Yael Vinker. 2025.
Swiftsketch: A diffusion model for image-to-vector sketch generation. InProceed-
ings of the Special Interest Group on Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques
Conference Conference Papers. 1–12.
[2] Andreas Blattmann, Tim Dockhorn, Sumith Kulal, Daniel Mendelevitch, Maciej
Kilian, Dominik Lorenz, Yam Levi, Zion English, Vikram Voleti, Adam Letts, et al.
2023. Stable video diffusion: Scaling latent video diffusion models to large datasets.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.15127(2023).
[3] Defu Cao, Zhaowen Wang, Jose Echevarria, and Yan Liu. 2023. Svgformer: Rep-
resentation learning for continuous vector graphics using transformers. InPro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition.
10093–10102.
[4] Bowei Chen, Yifan Wang, Brian Curless, Ira Kemelmacher-Shlizerman, and
Steven M Seitz. 2024. Inverse painting: Reconstructing the painting process.
InSIGGRAPH Asia 2024 Conference Papers. 1–11.
[5] Lawrence Chen, Peter Schaldenbrand, Tanmay Shankar, Lia Coleman, and Jean
Oh. 2025. Spline-FRIDA: Towards Diverse, Humanlike Robot Painting Styles
with a Sample-Efficient, Differentiable Brush Stroke Model.IEEE Robotics and
Automation Letters(2025).
[6] Shen Ciao, Zhongyue Guan, Qianxi Liu, Li-Yi Wei, and Zeyu Wang. 2024. Ciallo:
GPU-accelerated rendering of vector brush strokes. InACM SIGGRAPH 2024
Conference Papers. 1–11.
[7] Zheng-Jun Du, Liang-Fu Kang, Jianchao Tan, Yotam Gingold, and Kun Xu. 2023.
Image vectorization and editing via linear gradient layer decomposition.ACM
Transactions on Graphics (TOG)42, 4 (2023), 1–13.
[8] Kevin Frans, Lisa Soros, and Olaf Witkowski. 2022. Clipdraw: Exploring text-
to-drawing synthesis through language-image encoders.Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems35 (2022), 5207–5218.
[9] Rinon Gal, Yael Vinker, Yuval Alaluf, Amit Bermano, Daniel Cohen-Or, Ariel
Shamir, and Gal Chechik. 2024. Breathing life into sketches using text-to-video
priors. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition. 4325–4336.
[10] Bruno Galerne, Lara Raad, José Lezama, and Jean-Michel Morel. 2024. Scaling
painting style transfer. InComputer Graphics Forum, Vol. 43. Wiley Online Library,
e15155.
[11] Rafael C Gonzalez. 2009.Digital image processing. Pearson education india.
[12] Kaiming He, Xiangyu Zhang, Shaoqing Ren, and Jian Sun. 2016. Deep residual
learning for image recognition. InProceedings of the IEEE conference on computer
vision and pattern recognition. 770–778.
[13] Or Hirschorn, Amir Jevnisek, and Shai Avidan. 2024. Optimize & reduce: a top-
down approach for image vectorization. InProceedings of the AAAI Conference on
Artificial Intelligence, Vol. 38. 2148–2156.
[14] Jonathan Ho, Tim Salimans, Alexey Gritsenko, William Chan, Mohammad
Norouzi, and David J Fleet. 2022. Video diffusion models.Advances in neu-
ral information processing systems35 (2022), 8633–8646.
[15] Zhewei Huang, Wen Heng, and Shuchang Zhou. 2019. Learning to paint with
model-based deep reinforcement learning. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF interna-
tional conference on computer vision. 8709–8718.
[16] Ying Jiang, Pengfei Xu, Congyi Zhang, Hongbo Fu, Henry Lau, and Wenping
Wang. 2024. Region-aware color smudging.IEEE Transactions on Visualization
and Computer Graphics31, 4 (2024), 1999–2011.
[17] Justin Johnson, Alexandre Alahi, and Li Fei-Fei. 2016. Perceptual losses for real-
time style transfer and super-resolution. InEuropean conference on computer
vision. Springer, 694–711.
[18] Tero Karras, Samuli Laine, and Timo Aila. 2019. A style-based generator ar-
chitecture for generative adversarial networks. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF
conference on computer vision and pattern recognition. 4401–4410.
[19] Alexander Kirillov, Eric Mintun, Nikhila Ravi, Hanzi Mao, Chloe Rolland, Laura
Gustafson, Tete Xiao, Spencer Whitehead, Alexander C Berg, Wan-Yen Lo, et al.
2023. Segment anything. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference
on computer vision. 4015–4026.
[20] Tzu-Mao Li, Michal Lukáč, Michaël Gharbi, and Jonathan Ragan-Kelley. 2020.
Differentiable vector graphics rasterization for editing and learning.ACM Trans-
actions on Graphics (TOG)39, 6 (2020), 1–15.
[21] Songhua Liu, Tianwei Lin, Dongliang He, Fu Li, Ruifeng Deng, Xin Li, Errui Ding,
and Hao Wang. 2021. Paint transformer: Feed forward neural painting with stroke
prediction. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF international conference on computer
vision. 6598–6607.
[22] Shilong Liu, Zhaoyang Zeng, Tianhe Ren, Feng Li, Hao Zhang, Jie Yang, Qing Jiang,
Chunyuan Li, Jianwei Yang, Hang Su, et al. 2024. Grounding dino: Marrying dino
with grounded pre-training for open-set object detection. InEuropean conference
on computer vision. Springer, 38–55.
[23] Xi Liu, Chaoyi Zhou, Nanxuan Zhao, and Siyu Huang. 2025. B\’ezier Splatting for
Fast and Differentiable Vector Graphics Rendering.arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.16424
(2025).
[24] Raphael Gontijo Lopes, David Ha, Douglas Eck, and Jonathon Shlens. 2019. A
learned representation for scalable vector graphics. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF
International Conference on Computer Vision. 7930–7939.
[25] Xu Ma, Yuqian Zhou, Xingqian Xu, Bin Sun, Valerii Filev, Nikita Orlov, Yun Fu,
and Humphrey Shi. 2022. Towards layer-wise image vectorization. InProceedings
of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 16314–
16323.
[26] Hui Mao, Ming Cheung, and James She. 2017. Deepart: Learning joint represen-
tations of visual arts. InProceedings of the 25th ACM international conference on
Multimedia. 1183–1191.
[27] Reiichiro Nakano. 2019. Neural painters: A learned differentiable constraint for
generating brushstroke paintings.arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.08410(2019).
[28] Alexandrina Orzan, Adrien Bousseau, Holger Winnemöller, Pascal Barla, Joëlle
Thollot, and David Salesin. 2008. Diffusion curves: a vector representation for
smooth-shaded images.ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG)27, 3 (2008), 1–8.
[29] Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gregory
Chanan, Trevor Killeen, Zeming Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, et al. 2019.
Pytorch: An imperative style, high-performance deep learning library.Advances
in neural information processing systems32 (2019).
[30] Nikhila Ravi, Valentin Gabeur, Yuan-Ting Hu, Ronghang Hu, Chaitanya Ryali,
Tengyu Ma, Haitham Khedr, Roman Rädle, Chloe Rolland, Laura Gustafson,
et al. 2024. Sam 2: Segment anything in images and videos.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2408.00714(2024).
[31] Pradyumna Reddy, Michael Gharbi, Michal Lukac, and Niloy J Mitra. 2021. Im2vec:
Synthesizing vector graphics without vector supervision. InProceedings of the
IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 7342–7351.
[32] Hui Ren, Joanna Materzynska, Rohit Gandikota, David Bau, and Antonio Torralba.
2024. Opt-In Art: Learning Art Styles Only from Few Examples.arXiv preprint
arXiv:2412.00176(2024).
[33] Robin Rombach, Andreas Blattmann, Dominik Lorenz, Patrick Esser, and Björn
Ommer. 2022. High-resolution image synthesis with latent diffusion models. In
Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF conference on computer vision and pattern recognition.
10684–10695.
[34] Peter Schaldenbrand, Zhixuan Liu, and Jean Oh. 2021. Styleclipdraw: Coupling
content and style in text-to-drawing synthesis.arXiv preprint arXiv:2111.03133
(2021).
[35] Peter Schaldenbrand, Gaurav Parmar, Jun-Yan Zhu, James McCann, and Jean
Oh. 2024. Cofrida: Self-supervised fine-tuning for human-robot co-painting.
In2024 IEEE International Conference on Robotics and Automation (ICRA). IEEE,
2296–2302.
[36] Maria Shugrina, Chin-Ying Li, and Sanja Fidler. 2022. Neural brushstroke engine:
learning a latent style space of interactive drawing tools.ACM Transactions on
Graphics (TOG)41, 6 (2022), 1–18.
[37] Maria Shugrina, Jingwan Lu, and Stephen Diverdi. 2017. Playful palette: an
interactive parametric color mixer for artists.ACM Transactions on Graphics
(TOG)36, 4 (2017), 1–10.
[38] Yiren Song, Shijie Huang, Chen Yao, Xiaojun Ye, Hai Ci, Jiaming Liu, Yuxuan
Zhang, and Mike Zheng Shou. 2024. Processpainter: Learn painting process from
sequence data.arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.06062(2024).
[39] Jian Sun, Lin Liang, Fang Wen, and Heung-Yeung Shum. 2007. Image vectorization
using optimized gradient meshes.ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG)26, 3
(2007), 11–es.
[40] Jianchao Tan, Jyh-Ming Lien, and Yotam Gingold. 2016. Decomposing images
into layers via RGB-space geometry.ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG)36, 1
(2016), 1–14.
[41] Gemini Team, Rohan Anil, Sebastian Borgeaud, Jean-Baptiste Alayrac, Jiahui Yu,
Radu Soricut, Johan Schalkwyk, Andrew M Dai, Anja Hauth, Katie Millican, et al.
2023. Gemini: a family of highly capable multimodal models.arXiv preprint
===== PAGE 14 =====
14•Ying Jiang, et al.
arXiv:2312.11805(2023).
[42] Qinghe Tian and Jean-Claude Franchitti. 2022. Text to artistic image generation.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.02439(2022).
[43] Yael Vinker, Ehsan Pajouheshgar, Jessica Y Bo, Roman Christian Bachmann,
Amit Haim Bermano, Daniel Cohen-Or, Amir Zamir, and Ariel Shamir. 2022.
Clipasso: Semantically-aware object sketching.ACM Transactions on Graphics
(TOG)41, 4 (2022), 1–11.
[44] Yizhi Wang and Zhouhui Lian. 2021. Deepvecfont: synthesizing high-quality
vector fonts via dual-modality learning.ACM Transactions on Graphics (TOG)40,
6 (2021), 1–15.
[45] Zhou Wang, Alan C Bovik, Hamid R Sheikh, and Eero P Simoncelli. 2004. Image
quality assessment: from error visibility to structural similarity.IEEE transactions
on image processing13, 4 (2004), 600–612.
[46] Zhenyu Wang, Jianxi Huang, Zhida Sun, Yuanhao Gong, Daniel Cohen-Or, and
Min Lu. 2025. Layered image vectorization via semantic simplification. InPro-
ceedings of the Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference. 7728–7738.
[47] Tianyi Xie, Yiwei Zhao, Ying Jiang, and Chenfanfu Jiang. 2025. Physanimator:
Physics-guided generative cartoon animation. InProceedings of the Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition Conference. 10793–10804.
[48] Ximing Xing, Chuang Wang, Haitao Zhou, Jing Zhang, Qian Yu, and Dong Xu.
2023. Diffsketcher: Text guided vector sketch synthesis through latent diffusion
models.Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems36 (2023), 15869–
15889.
[49] Ximing Xing, Haitao Zhou, Chuang Wang, Jing Zhang, Dong Xu, and Qian Yu.
2024. Svgdreamer: Text guided svg generation with diffusion model. InProceedings
of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition. 4546–
4555.
[50] Jinrui Yang, Qing Liu, Yijun Li, Soo Ye Kim, Daniil Pakhomov, Mengwei Ren,
Jianming Zhang, Zhe Lin, Cihang Xie, and Yuyin Zhou. 2025. Generative Image
Layer Decomposition with Visual Effects. InProceedings of the Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition Conference. 7643–7653.
[51] Lvmin Zhang, Chuan Yan, Yuwei Guo, Jinbo Xing, and Maneesh Agrawala. 2025.
Generating Past and Future in Digital Painting Processes.ACM Transactions on
Graphics (TOG)44, 4 (2025), 1–13.
[52] Richard Zhang, Phillip Isola, Alexei A Efros, Eli Shechtman, and Oliver Wang.
2018. The unreasonable effectiveness of deep features as a perceptual metric.
InProceedings of the IEEE conference on computer vision and pattern recognition.
586–595.
[53] Zhengxia Zou, Tianyang Shi, Shuang Qiu, Yi Yuan, and Zhenwei Shi. 2021. Stylized
neural painting. InProceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition. 15689–15698.
===== PAGE 15 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•15
A Per-Category Quantitative Results
We further provide per-category quantitative evaluations in Table 5, covering four representative painting styles: watercolor, oil, ink, and
digital. Across all metrics (PSNR, SSIM, LPIPS, and FD) and stroke budgets (128, 256, and 512), our method consistently achieves superior
performance compared to existing approaches, demonstrating both higher reconstruction fidelity and better perceptual quality.
Table 5. Per-category quantitative results: PSNR, SSIM, LPIPS, and FD for 128, 256, and 512 brush strokes.
Watercolor
Method 128 Brushes 256 Brushes 512 Brushes
PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓ PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓ PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓
Optimize&Reduce 18.872 0.5327 0.6093 15.30 20.301 0.5526 0.5590 14.51 21.782 0.5759 0.5058 12.16
PaintTransformer 16.594 0.4915 0.6854 13.33 17.175 0.4956 0.6276 12.28 18.548 0.5093 0.5457 11.79
LearningToPaint 19.459 0.5183 0.6475 17.04 21.592 0.5534 0.5800 15.48 23.156 0.5884 0.5294 11.86
Stylized-Neural-Painting 20.269 0.5310 0.5880 17.12 20.994 0.5521 0.5451 16.11 21.374 0.5705 0.5122 14.21
Ours 21.168 0.5655 0.5188 10.13 22.290 0.5855 0.4905 9.05 23.269 0.6085 0.4499 7.00
OilPainting
Method 128 Brushes 256 Brushes 512 Brushes
PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓ PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓ PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓
Optimize&Reduce 19.791 0.4875 0.6395 14.26 21.320 0.5103 0.5903 13.96 22.789 0.5342 0.5345 12.98
PaintTransformer 17.430 0.4471 0.7152 12.54 17.937 0.4513 0.6673 11.88 19.420 0.4712 0.5917 11.46
LearningToPaint 20.695 0.4796 0.6746 16.63 22.785 0.5178 0.6080 15.62 24.201 0.5537 0.5586 11.93
Stylized-Neural-Painting 21.226 0.4913 0.6246 16.89 22.062 0.5163 0.5798 16.49 22.228 0.5359 0.5459 14.96
Ours 22.439 0.5268 0.5508 10.79 23.318 0.5494 0.5154 9.26 24.026 0.5709 0.4743 7.16
InkPainting
Method 128 Brushes 256 Brushes 512 Brushes
PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓ PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓ PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓
Optimize&Reduce 18.798 0.6833 0.5000 13.57 20.558 0.7009 0.4576 12.52 22.327 0.7179 0.4245 12.02
PaintTransformer 15.412 0.5978 0.6736 14.17 16.198 0.6036 0.6299 13.29 17.444 0.6130 0.5554 12.41
LearningToPaint 18.210 0.6239 0.6073 17.18 20.692 0.6493 0.5500 14.91 22.407 0.6738 0.5079 11.67
Stylized-Neural-Painting 19.287 0.6339 0.5485 17.07 20.167 0.6452 0.5189 16.39 20.490 0.6549 0.4954 14.62
Ours 20.339 0.6522 0.4962 9.83 21.309 0.6664 0.4555 7.94 22.055 0.6779 0.4236 6.71
DigitalPainting
Method 128 Brushes 256 Brushes 512 Brushes
PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓ PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓ PSNR↑SSIM↑LPIPS↓FD↓
Optimize&Reduce 18.972 0.6383 0.5062 12.53 20.430 0.6490 0.4629 11.13 22.816 0.6691 0.4152 8.95
PaintTransformer 16.587 0.5934 0.6356 14.88 17.536 0.6014 0.5890 13.67 18.925 0.6149 0.5313 11.48
LearningToPaint 18.359 0.5957 0.5940 16.52 21.017 0.6183 0.5417 13.29 22.857 0.6421 0.4964 9.61
Stylized-Neural-Painting 20.370 0.6323 0.5004 14.72 21.392 0.6450 0.4652 13.13 21.629 0.6501 0.4491 11.01
Ours 21.906 0.6527 0.4599 8.25 22.861 0.6660 0.4229 6.48 23.613 0.6765 0.3972 5.68
===== PAGE 16 =====
16•Ying Jiang, et al.
B More Painting Results
We showcase additional results, including 1024-stroke reconstructions arranged in a5× 5grid and 128–512-stroke reconstructions on a4 × 4
canvas, using images from the same test set. The test set includes samples from the publicly available WikiArt dataset [26] and recreated
artworks collected from an online painting website2 , demonstrating the strong generalization ability of our method across diverse subjects
and painting styles.
C More Qualitative Results
We provide additional qualitative comparisons against Learning to Paint [15], PaintTransformer [21], Stylized Neural Painting [53], and
O&R [13], illustrating reconstructions from 128 to 512 strokes across four representative painting styles: digital (Fig. 24), oil (Fig. 25, Fig. 26),
watercolor (Fig. 27, Fig. 28), and ink (Fig. 29, Fig. 30). Our method consistently achieves coherent structural alignment, smooth tonal transitions,
and realistic painterly effects under varying stroke budgets, demonstrating its robustness and adaptability across different artistic styles.
2https://www.pinterest.com/
===== PAGE 17 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•17
1024 128256512Input
Fig. 15. More showcases from 128 to 1024 strokes in digital painting with the proposed method.
===== PAGE 18 =====
18•Ying Jiang, et al.
1024 128256512Input
Fig. 16. More showcases from 128 to 1024 strokes in digital paintings with the proposed method.
===== PAGE 19 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•19
1024 128256512Input
Fig. 17. More showcases from 128 to 1024 strokes in digital paintings with the proposed method.
===== PAGE 20 =====
20•Ying Jiang, et al.
1024 128256512Input
Fig. 18. More showcases from 128 to 1024 strokes in ink paintings with the proposed method.
===== PAGE 21 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•21
1024 128256512Input
Fig. 19. More showcases from 128 to 1024 strokes in ink paintings with the proposed method.
===== PAGE 22 =====
22•Ying Jiang, et al.
1024 128256512Input
Fig. 20. More showcases from 128 to 1024 strokes in oil paintings with the proposed method.
===== PAGE 23 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•23
1024 128256512Input
Fig. 21. More showcases from 128 to 1024 strokes in oil paintings with the proposed method.
===== PAGE 24 =====
24•Ying Jiang, et al.
1024 128256512Input
Fig. 22. More showcases from 128 to 1024 strokes in watercolor paintings with the proposed method.
===== PAGE 25 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•25
1024 128256512Input
Fig. 23. More showcases from 128 to 1024 strokes in watercolor paintings with the proposed method.
===== PAGE 26 =====
26•Ying Jiang, et al.
Ours Stylized Neural PaintingPaint Transformer Learn to Paint
Input
128 256 512512256128
Input
O&R
Fig. 24. More qualitative results from 128 to 512 strokes in digital paintings.
===== PAGE 27 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•27
Ours Stylized Neural PaintingPaint Transformer Learn to Paint
Input
Input
128 256 512512256128128 256 512
O&R
Input
Fig. 25. More qualitative results from 128 to 512 strokes in oil paintings.
===== PAGE 28 =====
28•Ying Jiang, et al.
Ours Stylized Neural PaintingPaint Transformer Learn to Paint
128 256 512512256128128 256 512
Input
Input
O&R
Input
Fig. 26. More qualitative results from 128 to 512 strokes in oil paintings.
===== PAGE 29 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•29
Our Stylized Neural PaintingPaint Transformer Learn to PaintOurs Stylized Neural PaintingPaint Transformer Learn to Paint
128 256 128 256 512 512128 256 512
Input
Input
Input
O&R
Fig. 27. More qualitative results from 128 to 512 strokes in watercolor paintings.
===== PAGE 30 =====
30•Ying Jiang, et al.
Ours Stylized Neural PaintingPaint Transformer Learn to Paint
Input
Input
128 256 512 512256128
Input
512256128
O&R
Fig. 28. More qualitative results from 128 to 512 strokes in watercolor paintings.
===== PAGE 31 =====
Birth of a Painting: Differentiable Brushstroke Reconstruction•31
Our Stylized Neural PaintingPaint Transformer Learn to PaintOurs Stylized Neural PaintingPaint Transformer Learn to Paint
Input
128256128 512256512
 512256
Input
O&R
Input
128
Fig. 29. More qualitative results from 128 to 512 strokes in ink paintings.
===== PAGE 32 =====
32•Ying Jiang, et al.
Ours Stylized Neural PaintingPaint Transformer Learn to Paint
128 256 512
Input
O&R
Fig. 30. More qualitative results from 128 to 512 strokes in ink paintings.